---
title: 'All Things Are Possible - Part 1'
date: '2013-11-16'
lastmod: '2022-01-13'
tags: ['new-creation-realities', 'authority']
draft: false
summary: 'A lot is happening very fast; some awesome, others appalling. Crimes and suicides are on the rise. Covid has killed many and still kills innocent people. Despite this, our Lord tells us to cheer up, for He has overcome the world! (John 16:33).'
authors: ['default']
---

A lot is happening very fast; some awesome, others appalling. Crimes and suicides are on the rise. Covid has killed many and still kills innocent people. Despite this, our Lord tells us to cheer up, for He has overcome the world! (John 16:33). I know the current economy of the world is in a mess. Whatever the case, all things are possible to him that believes!

I'm trying to draw your attention to the fact that we're to remain calm, no matter the situation. Jesus told us that in the last days, men's hearts shall fail them to fear (Luke 21:26), yet this is not the portion of the child of God. It's so sad that in these times of uncertainty some people think that the best way to end everything is to either commit suicide or kill someone for money. They hold the belief that the dead has his peace of mind, so it's better to take their life. What would such folks tell God on account of death? Your life does not belong to you so you have absolutely no right whatsoever to take it yourself, neither do you have the right to take another man's life.

Life is precious! Jesus tells us to not be troubled no matter what comes may (Matthew 24:6). You can be a success, happy and have a glorious life because God designed you purposely for that. Christians are the light of the world (Matthew 5:14). What I know is that the darker an environment, the brighter the light shines. Some Christians ask such question as, "Why is it that unbelievers seem to make it, while some believers continue to suffer?" Believers are not suffering. It depends on how you interpret "suffering." The Bible says, "...through knowledge shall the just be delivered" (Proverbs 11:9). So you can be born again, speak in tongues and pray for long hours, and "still suffer" without knowledge.

This is the very reason the Apostle Paul commends us to God and to the Word of His grace, which is able to build us up and to give us an inheritance among them which are sanctified (Acts 20:32). The world is full of anxiety (Covid, Malaria, Ebola etc), but that's why you need to renew your mind with the Word of God (Romans 12:2). While you're born again, you may be battling with the mind as you grow in Christ. This is why we are to bring into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ (2 Corinthians 10:5). The Bible says that, "...the heir, as long as he is a child, differeth nothing from a servant, though he be lord of all" (Galatians 4:1). 

We're heirs of God and joint-heirs with Christ (Romans 8:17). Without knowledge, you'll be treated much like a slave, even though you are an heir of the Almighty God - the Creator and Owner of the universe! Through ignorance, everyone will be instructing him (as long as he's a child) on how to live and conduct his life - even the world! You're not of the world (John 15:19). There's absolutely no problem with the world dictating to you; it's what you do with the instructions of the world that matters.When you're a babe, then there's the likelihood that you're going to respond to the negativity of the world. God says His children are destroyed, crushed and bruised because they lack knowledge (Hosea 4:6). That's why you've got to study and meditate on the Word of God like it's no nobody's business!

The Lord said, "...Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might, let not the rich man glory in his riches: But let him that glorieth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth me..." (Jeremiah 9:23-24). If you do not know who you have become in Christ, then you'll live like the rest of the world. God never wants us complaining. For instance, In Numbers 13 when the Israelites journeyed to the Promised Land, God told Moses to choose one of the leaders from each of the twelve tribes and send them as spies to explore the land of Canaan, which He had promised to give them. 

Moses obeyed and from the wilderness of Paran he sent out the leaders. After exploring the land for forty days, the spies returned. They told Moses, "We came unto the land whither thou sentest us, and surely it floweth with milk and honey; and this is the fruit of it. Nevertheless the people be strong that dwell in the land, and the cities are walled, and very great: and moreover we saw the children of Anak there..." While they spoke, Caleb silenced the people who were complaining against Moses, and said, "Let us go up at once, and possess it; for we are well able to overcome it." But the men that went up with him said, "We be not able to go up against the people; for they are stronger than we."

And they brought up an evil report of the land which they had searched unto the children of Israel, saying, "The land, through which we have gone to search it, is a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof; and all the people that we saw in it are men of a great stature. And there we saw the giants, the sons of Anak, which come of the giants: and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight" (Number 13). 

When you read the whole story, you get to know that Moses actually asked them to look the land over. He charged them to assess the people: whether they are strong or weak, as well as the total number of people who dwell there. Observe the land: Is it pleasant or harsh? Describe the towns where they live: Are they open camps or fortified with walls? And the soil: Is it fertile or barren? Are there forests? Moses also asked them to bring back a sample of the produce that grows there.

The people reported exactly what their eyes saw! But you know what? God was displeased with them. The children of Israel gave load cries of grief, and all that night they gave themselves up to weeping because of the report the spies presented. They murmured against God, Moses and Aaron, so much so that they even wanted to go back into exile in Egypt. For their decision, Moses and Aaron bowed to the ground in front of all the people. 

Joshua and Caleb, members of the scouting party, ripped their clothes and addressed the assembled people of Israel: "The land, which we passed through to search it, is an exceeding good land. If the LORD delight in us, then he will bring us into this land, and give it us; a land which floweth with milk and honey. Only rebel not ye against the LORD, neither fear ye the people of the land; for they are bread for us: their defence is departed from them, and the LORD is with us: fear them not."

That faith! While the other spies reported that they looked like grasshoppers in the face of the giants, Caleb and Joshua said they are like bread unto them. While they spoke, the whole community was threatening to stone them to death, but suddenly the people saw the dazzling light of the Lord's presence appear over the Tent. Every Israelite saw it. God got so angry that Moses had to intercede for the people. God then decided that none of them above twenty years of age would enter the Promised Land. They would eventually perish in the wilderness before the rest of the people make it to the Promised Land. Of the twelve spies only Joshua and Caleb survived. The rest were struck with a disease and died.

The Lord gave a message to Moses and Aaron to be delivered to the Israelites, saying, "Doubtless ye shall not come into the land, concerning which I sware to make you dwell therein, save Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun." The Lord said also that, "...my servant Caleb, because he had another spirit with him, and hath followed me fully, him will I bring into the land whereinto he went; and his seed shall possess it." (Numbers 14). How inspiring. Read the whole of Numbers chapters 13 and 14; there's so much to learn there. 

The lesson from this story is that God doesn't want us complaining. Many people are agonized over their seeming inability to change their situation. Do not let what you're going through overwhelm you. God's Word says, "If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small" (Proverbs 24:10). Another version translates it this way: "If you are weak in a crisis, you are weak indeed" (GNB). Strength in that verse is your faith.

Every Christian has faith (Romans 12:3). We were all given the same amount of faith when we got born again. God gives you little faith; however, He expects you to grow it. The Bible talks about little or small faith (Matthew 8:26; 14:31), weak faith (Romans 4:19), great faith (Luke 7:9; Matthew 15:22-28) and strong faith (Romans 4:20). Jesus said, "If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove; and nothing shall be impossible unto you" (Matthew 17:20; Luke 17:6).

This means that we can accomplish much with the little faith we receive. But you see, this faith you received from God after becoming born again isn't enough. The Word says that you might fail in the day of adversity when you have small faith. When your faith is little, you'll be oppressed and tormented by fear of circumstances, hence your faith will not work.

Faith and fear are opposite. You could find someone who has faith, but fear begins to set in and weakens his faith. This means that faith and fear don't go together. Fear hinders faith, but faith destroys fear. You'll also find yourself doubting God's Word if your faith is little. One time the disciples of Jesus saw Him walking toward them on water. It was between three and six o'clock in the morning. When they saw him walking on the water, they were terrified. "It's a ghost!" they said, and screamed with fear. Jesus spoke to them at once: "Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid." Then Peter spoke up: "Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water." "Come!" answered Jesus. 

So Peter got out of the boat and started walking on the water to Jesus. But when he noticed the strong wind, he became afraid and started to sink down in the water. "Save me, Lord!" he cried. At once Jesus reached out and grabbed hold of him and said, "O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt?" (Matthew 14:24-31). With the little faith Peter had, he could respond to the call of Jesus. But when trouble began to set in, he doubted and fell. Little faith will not get the job done. It may start, but will not get the job done - it won't finish it. When your faith is little you can be terrorized by fear. You'll always fear adversity and be uncertain about the future.

Being born again is not the end, even though you'll make it to heaven when Christ shows up. But then you're still living on earth, so you've got to grow your faith to be able to deal with the problems the world throws at you. Little faith is the result of insufficient information. The Bible tells us: "As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby" (1 Peter 2:2). You have to feed on the Word of God. 

This brings to mind the first chapter of Psalms: "Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the LORD; and in his law doth he meditate day and night. And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season; his leaf also shall not wither; and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper" (Psalm 1:1-3). Do you know a Christian who's always complaining that things are not working right for him? Find out if he sees himself in the Word of God - reading and meditating upon it every day! If the Word of God isn't in you, you're going to think and act wrong. Everyone who makes a conscious learning and meditation of God's Word prospers.

Another translation puts it this way: "How well God must like you - you don't hang out at Sin Saloon, you don't slink along Dead-End Road, you don't go to Smart-Mouth College. Instead you thrill to GOD's Word, you chew on Scripture day and night. You're a tree replanted in Eden, bearing fresh fruit every month, Never dropping a leaf, always in blossom" (MSG). How inspiring! Faith is the response of the human spirit to the Word of God. The faith that responds with knowledge is great faith. It does not stop holding something or give up easily; it's determined - tenacious! 

Watch or listen to gospel materials, because faith comes by hearing (Romans 10:17). If you're going through a problem in one way or the other, find out what God's Word says about it. In other words, get more inside information concerning it. The more information you have on an issue, the greater doubt disappears. The cure for such little faith therefore is simply to learn more of God's Word. Inundate your spirit and bombard your mind with God's Word. 

"God's Word is Spirit. It has the divine capacity to stir you up, give you a vision, energize you for success and programme you for greatness. Don't underestimate the power of God's Word." - Rev Chris Oyakhilome PhD. You may come across Christians who have more inside information; they can quote several scriptures, but their faith is weak. If you don't put your faith to work, it's not going to grow.

If you don't act on the Word of God that you receive into your spirit, it's of no use. God's Word tells us: "...be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. For if any be a hearer of the word, and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass: For he beholdeth himself, and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, and continueth therein, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed" (James 1:22-25).

You have somebody taken down by some form of disease. He sees as he studies the Word that he was healed by the stripes of Jesus (1 Peter 2:24). Yet he goes out saying, "I'm so sick!" This man is deceiving himself. Do you see how simple that is? Imagine how many believers have been deceiving themselves. Interestingly, the Word of God is referred to as a mirror (2 Corinthians 3:18). Have you ever said you didn't look like you saw yourself in the mirror? Of course not! In the same way, let the Word of God reveal the exact picture of you. You should see the true and real you whenever you look into it. 

The world says, "You're sick." But you tell them, "I looked into my mirror (the Word of God) today and I looked perfect!" That's faith; you got it! The latter part of James 1:25 tells us something so profound. Let me put it this way: Whoever catches a glimpse of the revealed Word of God - even out of the corner of his eye, and sticks with it, is no distracted scatterbrain but a man or woman of action. That person will find delight and affirmation in the action - he'll be blessed in his deed. That's it! Put your faith to work. As you practice putting your faith to work, the stronger it becomes. If you don't do it, your faith is going to grow weak and will produce no results.

Do you know what happens when you put your faith to work, and it has no result? Fear sets in! Your weak faith, which is as a result of the lack of exercise of your faith, will bring doubt. You're going to wonder another time, "Is my faith going to work?" This is what causes your faith to stagger.

The [second part](https://rhemafromgod.com/all-things-are-possible-part-2) of this article has even more for our consumption.
