---
title: 'Christian Living'
date: '2013-11-16'
lastmod: '2022-01-22'
tags: ['christian-living']
draft: false
summary: 'As children of God, we are to set good examples in society. We are to reflect the character of Christ. You may be somebody`s mentor without knowing it. "Do all that you can to live in peace with everyone" (Romans 12:18, NLT).'
authors: ['default']
---

As children of God, we are to set good examples in society. We are to reflect the character of Christ. You may be somebody`s mentor without knowing it yourself. "Do all that you can to live in peace with everyone" (Romans 12:18, NLT). You may find this difficult at times, but as you yield yourself to the Spirit of the Lord, it becomes automatic. "And we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit" (2 Corinthians 3:18, ESV). There is a change that goes on in us as we study the Word of God.

Remember that Jesus is the Word, and as we behold His glory, we're metamorphosed into His image. The reason why some find it difficult to quit certain habits is because they rely too much on their senses. You've got to learn to fill your Spirit with the Word of God. Jesus said, "I am the vine; you are the branches. If a man remains in me and I in him, he will bear much fruit; apart from me you can do nothing" (John 15:5). We bear much, not any kind of fruit, but a fruit after Jesus' likeness, while abiding in Him. Before you can exhibit true Christian character, you've got to learn to meditate on the Word of God.

As the great man of faith, Smith Wigglesworth said, "Fill your head and your heart with the Scriptures... As you do this, you are sewing seeds that the Spirit of God can germinate... You must be so soaked with the Word of God, you must be so filled with it, that you yourself are a living epistle, known and read of all men. Believers are strong only as the Word of God abides in them..." Glory to God! What are some of the fruits you bear as you sow these seeds? What would they germinate into? "But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance: against such there is no law" (Galatians 5:22-23).

As you fill your mind and heart with the Word of God, the fruits of the Spirit are reproduced in your life. It's automatic! If a child of God does not reflect these qualities but the opposite, what do you think will become of unbelievers? Your way of life can discourage them from accepting Christ. Meanwhile, your life should preach the Gospel. People should be willing to receive Christ just because of your character, your way of life. Sometimes, some believers find it difficult to relate to their partners (spouses); a little misunderstanding develops into a quarrel. They make so much noise that unbelievers get to know about what's going on in their marriage. Where then is the fruit of love, peace, gentleness etc?

Oh, ye man or woman of faith? Why should a believer find it difficult to submit to authority while the Spirit of God indwells him? As Pastor Smith Wigglesworth said, you must be soaked with the Word of God, you must be so filled with it such that you yourself are a living epistle, known and read by all men. When you're rich with the Word of God, the character of the Spirit will be so evident in your life that those around you will notice it. People should learn from you. It's God's ideal that we submit to authority and not be rebellious.

The political party you support, not being in power, does not mean you should say wrong things about the ruling government; you're to show respect to them to live in peace. Yes, if things aren't going well, you've got to talk about it. If you're supposed to pay your taxes, kindly pay. If the government deserves your praise, let it be known. "Everyone must submit himself to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except that which God has established. The authorities that exist have been established by God. Consequently, he who rebels against authority is rebelling against what God has instituted, and those who do so will bring judgment on themselves.

For rulers hold no terror for those who do right, but for those who do wrong. Do you want to be free from fear of the one in authority? Then do what is right, and he will commend you. For he is God's servant to do you good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword for nothing. He is God's servant, an agent of wrath to bring punishment on the wrongdoer. Therefore, it is necessary to submit to the authorities, not only because of possible punishment but also because of conscience. This is also why you pay taxes, for the authorities are God's servants, who give their full time to governing. Give everyone what you owe him: If you owe taxes, pay taxes; if revenue, then revenue; if respect, then respect; if honor, then honor" (Romans 13:1-7).

"Remind the people to be subject to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, to be ready to do whatever is good." Cultivate the habit of humility. "The LORD mocks the mockers but is gracious to the humble" (Proverbs 3:34). "God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble" (James 4:6). If you're humble God lifts you up and if you're arrogant he opposes you. That's fact! Learn to forgive others whatever pain they might have caused you. It may be difficult but as you do it often, it'll become normal to you. God wants you to reflect His character because whether you know or not, you're His representative on earth. You should live as He would if he were here.

"Get rid of all bitterness, rage and anger, brawling and slander, along with every form of malice. Be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you" (Ephesians 4:31-32). "Then they cried out with a loud voice, and stopped their ears, and ran upon him with one accord, and cast him out of the city, and stoned him: and the witnesses laid down their clothes at a young man's feet, whose name was Saul. And they stoned Stephen, calling upon God, and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. And he kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice, Lord, lay not this sin to their charge. And when he had said this, he fell asleep" (Acts 7:57-60). Stephen asked God to forgive his killers even while they stoned him to death!😮

Stephen could have suffered more of the stone of persecution, but he prayed the right prayer through the Holy Spirit and God relieved him. I am absolutely convinced here that Stephen's last prayer prepared salvation for Saul, who later became Paul, who wrote several books of the New Testament. Let's pray for everyone, even our enemies. You will be surprised at how God turns to use them for the furtherance of His Gospel. I don't know if all the people that stoned Stephen were saved but at least Saul became saved. In the Bible are records of many people, both good and evil.

Find out those that God praised and learn from their way of life. As a Christian, someone goes to church on Saturdays shouldn't make you argue with him or her because you go to church on Sundays. The only important thing is that we all believe in Christ and therefore are one Body in Him. Never comment or say negative things concerning other men of God. If you're the drummer in a church or other function, you may not really see yourself in video, TV-broadcast, magazines, for people to see that you're the best drummer; in spite of these, you say that you're fulfilled for producing that sound. That's a true character.

Even though John could have boasted of being the one to baptize Jesus, yet he said, "He must increase, but I must decrease." (John 3:30). What a life! Learn to be content with what you have; that does not mean you don't dream big, anyway. Don't worry about people not recognizing or not greeting you when they see you. Greet them rather if they don't. In the Book of Esther 3, Bible tells us of how Mordecai, refused to bow down to prince Haman due to his pride. And it came to pass that the people told Haman that Mordecai wasn't bowing down to him whenever he passed by. 

For this reason prince Haman planned to kill Mordecai, but the Lord resisted him. Humility is also another important part of true character. Sometimes, there are people who tend to become a torn in the flesh of others just because of their possessions. Because of what they have, the way the walk and talk changes. They feel so proud, but God's Word says a man cannot have, unless he's given from heaven. What does one gain after all these? Nothing! Don't bother where you are now; don't hesitate to be in a certain place or position because you see your mates and other friends there. God's promotion does not come by the force of men.

I know where I've got to be now is not from God. Just relax. No matter what happens, just take a hold unto His promises. He said, "For I know the thoughts that I think toward you, saith the LORD, thoughts of peace, and not of evil, to give you an expected end" (Jeremiah 29:11). "...and be clothed with humility: for God resisteth the proud, and giveth grace to the humble. Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time:" (1 Peter 5:5-6). Don't force yourself on God, for He's got time for you. Let's see what John told Jesus when He came to be baptized by him. "But John forbad him, saying, I have need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me? And Jesus answering said unto him, Suffer it to be so now: for thus it becometh us to fulfil all righteousness. Then he suffered him" (Matthew 3:14-15).

John didn't say, well come let me baptized you because I am the one to do it. He said I need to be baptized by you, and you are coming to me? "But made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men: And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross" (Philippians 2:7-8). Jesus was God, yet He took upon himself the flesh of a man and was humble in all his life, even unto death. He had the power to command angels and chariots to devour the soldiers when they came to arrest Him, yet because of us, in humility, he endured death (Matthew 26:53).

Make it a point to share what you've got with others. There is a secret I've seen with the people who love to share: they are happy. Support God's Word through your giving. When Jesus told the young ruler to sell all that he had, give them to the poor and follow him, he became so sad that he left. Be grateful for who you are. God wants us to grow quickly, because life is so short and there's no wasting of time. We've got to feed our Spirit so much with God's Word. Matthew 5:1-4 tells us, "And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain: and when he was set, his disciples came unto him: And he opened his mouth, and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted."

The poor in Spirit are those that have given up everything in the Spirit. Because they have more, they have given them up for the betterment and fulfilment of others. They give to foster the spread of the gospel; they help the people in and around their catchment areas. Nothing really matters to them. When Jesus said "Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted," He wasn't talking about the person who is mourning because he lost his relative. In the Bible, the prophets mourned for the children of God that were in captivity, interceding and mourning on behalf of them in prayer.

Ever since you became born again, did you think about the fact that someone somewhere groaned in the Spirit on your behalf? In the Book of Exodus 32, we find out how Moses interceded on behalf of the people of Israel for their sins. God was about destroying them but for Moses' intercession, God had compassion. Our struggle to make ourselves great is useless. If God has accepted you, it doesn't matter who doesn't accept you. Choose to be humble. The Apostle Paul says, "For sin shall not have dominion over you: for ye are not under the law, but under grace. What then? shall we sin, because we are not under the law, but under grace? God forbid" (Romans 6:14-15).

Even though we're under grace and not under the law, it doesn't mean we should be sinning intentionally. "Honour all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honour the king" (1 Peter 2:17). "Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things" (Philippians 4:8).

I love you,
God bless you!
