---
title: "Custodians of God's Mysteries - Part 2"
date: '2013-11-16'
lastmod: '2013-11-20'
tags: ['christian-living', 'mysteries']
draft: false
summary: 'The Amplified Bible says we have come to Zion, "And to the church (assembly) of the Firstborn who are registered as citizens in heaven..." (Hebrews 12:23).'
authors: ['default']
---

The Amplified Bible says we have come to Zion, "And to the church (assembly) of the Firstborn who are registered as citizens in heaven..." (Hebrews 12:23). We're registered citizens of Heaven; do you get it? There are some Christians who are even not sure whether they are saved or not; they want to feel something in their bodies to believe this. Such people are of the senses. They are the people marching to Zion. God's Word says I am in Heaven now; my name is registered there. Do you get that?

Just like in school, when my name is mentioned I respond, "Yes Sir!" So you see how people sing without taking note of the words? To them, they think the lyrics are beautiful so they've got to sing along. No! That's not how God wants us; we have to make sure the lyrics match with God's Word before we sing along. I've noticed that it's easy to discern between law and spirit-inspired words when you're filled with the Spirit (Ephesians 5:18). The problem with a lot of Christians is that of carnality. When they read or listen to the Word of God, they would always try to figure out things with their minds. The reason a lot of people don't believe in our Gospel is because they're trying to get things with their intellect.

The Spirit of God is limitless, whereas the mind is limited by nature. When a person is born again, he's a child in the things of God. It's possible to be a Christian for 100 years and still be a babe in Christ. Christianity is not by age, it's by how spiritually matured one is, not physically. We are heirs of God and joint-heirs with Christ (Romans 8:17), yet, "Now I say, That the heir, as long as he is a child, differeth nothing from a servant, though he be lord of all; But is under tutors and governors until the time appointed of the father" (Galatians 4:1-2). When a child is young, even though he might have full right to the parent's resources, he's not permitted to have full access until he's of age; he might misuse them. It's the same with Christianity.

A baby Christian wouldn't be able to enjoy all the rights and privileges we have in Christ Jesus, even though he has the right to them. The reason is because he isn't matured enough to claim what belongs to him, or more or less take possession of them. As you grow in the Lord, you get to the point where you can take decisions because you know your rights in Christ. The Spirit will unveil more mysteries to you as you study the Word, for He's the author of it. We are to eat the Word (Jeremiah 15:16); be a good workman, one who does not need to be ashamed when God examines your work. Know what His Word says and means" (2 Timothy 2:15, TLB).

Also, "...brethren, I commend you to God, and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up, and to give you an inheritance among all them which are sanctified" (Acts 20:32). So it's with the Word that you can claim your inheritance. In the New Testament we have a new relationship with God in which He has brought us to His level, so that we may know His will and understand His ways. Why not search His Word if you don't know it? You're a child of God so His will is revealed in you and to you: "And because ye are sons, God hath sent forth the Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father" (Galatians 4:6). If God is our Father, then we have the son-father relationship with Him.

Do parents make their will and purposes known to their children? They do! If yes, why won't God commune with us? As His children, He'll freely talk to us without any barrier. Of His own will begot He us with the Word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of His creatures (James 1:18). We carry His very nature as His offspring. You're the expression of the will of God and that's why you're here, even though you're in heaven. People can't see God with their optical eyes, but they see God when they see you because you're His expression! "God alone made it possible for you to be in Christ Jesus. For our benefit God made Christ to be wisdom itself. He is the one who made us acceptable to God. He made us pure and holy, and he gave himself to purchase our freedom" (1Corinthians 1:30, NLT).

That verse has much to say and there're great mysteries in it but I want us to focus on the portion that states that we're in Christ Jesus. If I am in Him, then His righteousness, wisdom, holiness, knowledge etc. are all mine. It is written: "In whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge" (Colossians 2:3). Oh, so the more I know Christ, the wiser and knowledgeable I become; I'm not confused! In Him are hid all the great treasures and we're in Him brethren in Christ. We have something to glory of: "Now thanks be unto God, which always causeth us to triumph in Christ, and maketh manifest the savour of his knowledge by us in every place" (2 Corinthians 2:14).

He manifests Himself in us everywhere because we're in Him and He's in us (John 14:20). We're to make known these mysteries to the carnal ones because they cannot receive the thing of God: "For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ" (2 Corinthians 4:6). Because we are joined to the Lord in one Spirit (1 Corinthians 6:17) and we have been made to drink from one Spirit (1 Corinthians 12:13), the Lord can share His vision with us. We are Christ's ambassadors (2 Corinthians 5:20), acting in His stead in the earth.

We are hid in Christ: "For as many of you as were baptized into Christ into a spiritual union and communion with Christ, the Anointed One, the Messiah have put on (clothed yourselves with) Christ" (Galatians 3:27). Praise God! How powerful this verse is. I love the explanation of this verse by the President of Christ Embassy, Rev. Chris Oyakhilome: "To put on Christ isn't like a jacket; that doesn't provide adequate covering for all the parts of your body. In the Greek rendering, it actually connotes a sinking into a sack. Imagine yourself in a sack, large enough to accommodate you, until you can't be seen anymore. You've been completely submersed into the sack; with none of your body parts revealed.

That's the sense in which you've put on Christ. You've been completely immersed, baptized, and enwrapped into Christ, such that Christ is all that can be seen about you. This doesn't suggest something that'll happen with time, it's who you are now; you've put on Christ by virtue of the new birth; you've been baptized into Christ. Christ is all about you, all over you, and all around you. You're in Him! 1 John 4:13says, "...we dwell in him, and he in us..." Also Colossians 3:3-4 says your life is hid with Christ in God, and Christ has become your life; what a revelation! Make this your consciousness. You've been fully swaddled and encased in Christ.

Since sickness, disease, infirmity, such negativities can't be found in Him, they therefore shouldn't be a part of your life. In Christ, you're shielded from the mundane and corrupting influences in the world. That means you can face life with boldness, courage and a victor's mentality. You're immersed in the one described for us in the Word as the reflection of the Father's glory, and the exact likeness or express image of His person. He's the perfect representation of God's personality (Hebrews 1:3). When He walked this earth, He forgave, blessed, healed, raised the dead, embraced sinners, and changed lives. Now that you're soaked in Him; now that he's made you a partaker of Hisglory, grace and divine nature, His personality and character should radiate through you to your world." Wow!

I'm so grateful to Pastor Chris! So you completely look like Christ, that's why you've got to go to God with boldness. The children of Israel trembled before God, but we are told: "Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need" (Hebrews 4:16). We are not to cower or slouch; go to God and claim what belongs to you! Jesus' blood graciously forgives instead of crying out for vengeance as the blood of Abel did (Hebrews 12:24). There's so much in Christ that like Paul, I always pray the church will get to know of. From a few verses we've discussed, we get to know that Christ is made unto us wisdom. The Word says looking at Jesus (Hebrews 12:2) so stop looking at yourself.

You're going to fail if you depend on yourself. Men can only reproduce human life, but the Holy Spirit gives new life from heaven (John 3:6). God gave us new life in Christ (Ephesians 2:1-10). We're spirit beings, born of the Spirit, so we have that new life from heaven. We can never know God by the wisdom of the world; NEVER! As He is, so are we in the world (1 John 4:17). The Message Bible says "Our standing in the world is identical (that is, similar in every detail) with Christ's." Jesus is the vine and we are the branches (John 15:5). Everything that flows through him flows through us. We have nothing on our own; He's wiped away everything we had and has given us His entirety. What a wonderful God we serve!

I pray we may all come to know this very love of God which goes beyond anything we can imagine (Philippians 4:7). Let this peace of God rule in your hearts (Colossians 3:15). God loves you no matter what. He's called you to live the kind of life He's prepared for you: "And thine ears shall hear a word behind thee, saying, This is the way, walk ye in it" (Isaiah 30:21).We know that Jesus came to the world and completed His task. Now, He has brought us into His presence to live like He did. After everything He sat at the right hand of God (Hebrews 1:1-4), and we're there with Him. Even though we're in the world, we're not of the world (John 15:19). Just as a person works as an ambassador for a government in a country, we are also living in the world as God's ambassadors.

God backs us with everything He has to make sure we're complete. Oh, we're custodians of His mysteries; we declare His Word in simplicity. No wonder Jesus said, "What I tell you in darkness, that speak ye in light: and what ye hear in the ear, that preach ye upon the housetops" (Matthew 10:27). We make known the mysteries He gives us! We are the salt of the earth, and the light of the world (Matthew 5:13-14). So, too, if those who are the salt of the earth cease to communicate the saving power, they are fit only to be cast out, and Christ will cast such out of his mouth (Revelation 3:16). The business of the church is not only to save, but to enlighten. Christ is light, and his disciples are lights.

Anciently cities, for the sake of defence, were placed on hills. Such cities are seen from afar; so must the church give forth its light. Jesus made a wonderful statement: "As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world" (John 9:5). As long as we're in the world, we're the lights of the world! On the road to Damascus, Paul (then Saul) was blinded by a blazing light from heaven. Jesus then sent Ananias to heal him. He also gave Paul a message from the Lord: "And he said, The God of our fathers hath chosen thee, that thou shouldest know his will, and see that Just One, and shouldest hear the voice of his mouth. For thou shalt be his witness unto all men of what thou hast seen and heard" (Acts 22:14-15).

God decided to make known His will to Paul because he had become His son. Study the Word and you'll notice that God's not as mysterious as some think because He's shown us from His Word what He's done, what He's doing and what He'll do. He's sealed you with the Spirit to reveal those hidden mysteries to you. The Old Testament folks didn't actually understand who God was. For that matter, He said to them, "For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the LORD. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts" (Isaiah 55:8-9). Unfortunately, you find New Testament believers (Christians) who quote the same thing.

Alright, there was a mystery but Colossians 1:22-27 shows us that Jesus came to solve it. The mystery's been revealed to the saints, which is "Christ in you, the hope of glory." Hallelujah! We have a new relationship with God, in which He has brought us to His level, so that we may know His will and understand His ways. We have become partakers of His divine nature (Colossians 1:12), and have been raised up and made to sit together with Christ in heavenly places (Ephesians 2:6). Christ is the head of the church (Ephesians 1:22-23; 5:23). He's the head and we're the body! The head cannot do without the body, neither can the body do without the church. This is the reason why we are in partnership.

Jesus will do nothing when we don't do something. We're full of God because we're in Jesus. Paul tells us to recognize this so as to be flooded with God! You need to be very careful about those you listen to, because some people just go into the Old Testament to dig out those things that God told sense knowledge people, interpret them out of context and then try to apply them to New Testament folks. Search the scriptures to know who God is, who you are and His purpose for your life. God desires to make Himself known to us. Hebrews 8:13 says that he has made a new covenant, thereby making the first one old; and that which decays and waxes old is ready to vanish away.

Jesus also said, "This is my blood of the new covenant which is shed for many" (Mark 14:24). God's made everything new, where He's able to have fellowship with us. Paul was a man who was super-loaded with divine mysteries. In Romans 11, he was making known some mysteries but also said, "For I would not, brethren, that ye should be ignorant of this mystery, lest ye should be wise in your own conceits; that blindness in part is happened to Israel, until the fulness of the Gentiles be come in" (verse 25). From a letter written to the Romans he also said, "Now to him that is of power to stablish you according to my gospel, and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery, which was kept secret since the world began, But now is made manifest" (Romans 16:25).

There used to be a mystery, but it has been brought to light by the Spirit of God. You see, there's something special about the man who's endued and filled with Holy Ghost. That man doesn't just read the Bible as a mere book, no! There're people who're like that and they can quote every scripture, but you ask, "What revelation do they have from those scriptures?" Studying the Bible is more than reading a story book; it's having yourself updated from God's headquarters with information. The Apostle Paul talks about God, making "known unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure which he hath purposed in himself" (Ephesians 1:9). Wow! But that's not all.

He also said in other verses, "How that by revelation he made known unto me the mystery; (as I wrote afore in few words, Whereby, when ye read, ye may understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ). And to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery, which from the beginning of the world hath been hid in God, who created all things by Jesus Christ: This is a great mystery: but I speak concerning Christ and the church. And for me, that utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly, to make known the mystery of the gospel, Even the mystery which hath been hid from ages and from generations, but now is made manifest to his saints:

To whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles; which is Christ in you, the hope of glory: That their hearts might be comforted, being knit together in love, and unto all riches of the full assurance of understanding, to the acknowledgement of the mystery of God, and of the Father, and of Christ; Withal praying also for us, that God would open unto us a door of utterance, to speak the mystery of Christ..." (Ephesians 3:3-4, 9; 5:32; 6:19; Colossians 1:26-27; 2:2; 4:3).

We're not done yet; wow! The [final part](https://www.rhemafromgod.com/custodians-of-gods-mysteries-part-3) has even more for us to consume. Let's keep studying.
