---
title: 'Fear Not For I Am With You - Part 2'
date: '2012-05-12'
lastmod: '2012-05-13'
tags: ['fear']
draft: false
summary: 'One late night, the disciples were in their boat in the middle of the sea, and Jesus was alone on the land. He saw that they were in serious trouble, rowing hard and struggling against the wind and waves.'
authors: ['default']
---

One late night, the disciples were in their boat in the middle of the sea, and Jesus was alone on the land. He saw that they were in serious trouble, rowing hard and struggling against the wind and waves. As a result, Jesus came toward them, walking on the water. Scripture says "...about the fourth watch of the night he cometh unto them, walking upon the sea, and would have passed by them. But when they saw him walking upon the sea, they supposed it had been a spirit, and cried out: For they all saw him, and were troubled. And immediately he talked with them, and saith unto them, Be of good cheer: it is I; be not afraid. And he went up unto them into the ship; and the wind ceased: and they were sore amazed in themselves beyond measure, and wondered" (Mark 6:48-51).

When Jesus saw them perishing, he could have gone into the cities to announce what he had seen, so that people could go there with boats to get them saved. But hey, the Master knew who He was. That would have been too late. He walked on the water to where they were and got them saved. How? The wind ceased as soon as He got into the ship. In other words, His presence was recognized; the water had no power over Him! The Word says they were afraid, "For they considered not the miracle of the loaves: for their heart was hardened" (Mark 6:52). They had forgotten how Jesus fed thousands with a few loaves bread and little fishes; would this then be impossible unto Him? No!

Rest in the promises of God, put them to work, and you'll certainly get the results. Use the Word to change those circumstances that seem impossible; it's a mirage, it's not real. Refuse to consider it; change it to suite you! I know also about a great fish that swallowed a man. When men drown in water, don't they die? They do! But consider Jonah: When he was cast into the sea, a great fish swallowed him up. He was in the belly of the fish and also in the water at the same time, because a fish lives in water of course. He didn't die! He stayed in the belly of the fish three days and three nights (Jonah 1:17). He would have died after a few minutes or hours if he wasn't anointed.

Let's see what happened while in the fish's belly: "Then Jonah prayed unto the LORD his God out of the fish's belly, And said, I cried by reason of mine affliction unto the LORD, and he heard me; out of the belly of hell cried I, and thou heardest my voice. For thou hadst cast me into the deep, in the midst of the seas; and the floods compassed me about: all thy billows and thy waves passed over me. I said, I am cast out of thy sight; yet I will look again toward thy holy temple. The waters compassed me about, even to the soul: the depth closed me round about, the weeds were wrapped about my head. I went down to the bottoms of the mountains; the earth with her bars was about me for ever: yet hast thou brought up my life from corruption, O LORD my God.

When my soul fainted within me I remembered the LORD: and my prayer came in unto thee, into thine holy temple. They that observe lying vanities forsake their own mercy. But I will sacrifice unto thee with the voice of thanksgiving; I will pay that that I have vowed. Salvation is of the LORD. And the LORD spake unto the fish, and it vomited out Jonah upon the dry land" (Jonah 2:1-10). Oh my God! Even in the fish's belly, Jonah prayed to God. Do you think this was naturally possible? Certainly not! He could do it because the hand of God was upon his life. Jonah prayed to his God, meaning, he had a revelation of Him; he knew his God. So what at all has power or dominion over us? Nothing! All God had to do was to talk to the fish to let him out, not in the sea but on the dry land. How lovely our God is.

It's written of Sampson: "Then went Samson down, and his father and his mother, to Timnath, and came to the vineyards of Timnath: and, behold, a young lion roared against him. And the Spirit of the LORD came mightily upon him, and he rent him as he would have rent a kid, and he had nothing in his hand: but he told not his father or his mother what he had done" (Judges 14:5-6). Consider this story carefully. Sampson had no weapon in his hand to accomplish that task; all he needed was the anointing, the Spirit of the Lord. It's made clear that he accomplished this when the Spirit of the Lord came mightily upon him. In the Old Testament, they didn't have the Spirit upon them every time. The Spirit came when they needed to accomplish something special.

There were only two people who constantly had the Spirit upon them because of their priestly functions. Now let's take the new creation into account. We of the New Testament are the new creation; not everybody, but those that have received the Lord Jesus Christ as their Lord and personal Saviour. We are endued with the Holy Ghost 24/7; every second, minute, hour and day of the week. We can do so much! Sometimes I hear instances where people have drowned in water while in the ship and so on. You hear about others who have been devoured by wild animals. I ask myself: "Are they Christians?" Not just Christians per se, but Christians with revelation knowledge about the God they worship and his calling upon their lives. Hear me, if I were ever in a ship or anything that floats on water and that very thing got sank, I'll never drown.

If Jesus walked on the sea, what stops me from walking on it too? After all, He (Jesus) told us if we believe in Him, we will not just do what He did, but more than them! He made that known in John 14:12. If in case I came across any wild animal, all that I know is I'm anointed of God and superior to all things! Nothing can hurt me. When a viper bit Paul on the island of Melita, he just shook it into the fire. Those around him even called him a god, for he wasn't hurt (Acts 28:1-6). Just as Bible says the disciples feared because they had forgotten the miracles Jesus performed, many believers are perishing because they lack knowledge. How possible can I suffer from brain tumor, cancer, TB, HIV/AIDS and so on and so forth.

Sometimes I see Christians on TV, stating how come they contracted the HIV virus. I'm not saying it's wrong, but what I'm concerned about is while talking, they say things like: "I got it through such and such; I have it. I'm currently on medication and hoping to live longer." You have it? What you're doing is that you're confirming its existence in your body, and it'll be there! They hope to live longer; but there's a big difference between hope and faith. Hope talks about future (someday), but faith claim it now (it has happened!). Hope will keep you waiting and waiting for so long, but faith will tell you I have it now. Even if I were "sick," faith will tell me I'm not.

Hope, on the other hand, will tell me that I might be healed someday if I continue to believe. Faith doesn't consider; it doesn't care about any kind of feeling or whatsoever. Faith is "stubborn;" it's so hard that it doesn't give up no matter what it takes. You might die with your problem hoping to get rid of it. Hope is good, but don't apply it in situations you've got to overcome with faith. There's [power in your tongue](the-power-of-words-part-1), so be careful about what you say. You'll learn more there. In Bible days, king Darius decided to divide the kingdom into 120 provinces, and he appointed a high officer to rule over each province. The king also chose Daniel and two others as administrators to supervise the high officers and protect the king's interests. Daniel soon proved himself more capable than all the other administrators and high officers. Because of Daniel's great ability, the king decided to place him over the entire empire. It's recorded that an excellent Spirit was at work in Daniel.

The other administrators and high officers began searching for some fault in the way Daniel was handling the government affairs, but they couldn't find anything to criticize or condemn. He was faithful, always responsible, and completely trustworthy. For that matter, they decided to fault him in the relationship he had with God. So the administrators and high officers went to the king and urged him to make a law that for the next thirty days, nobody would pray to anyone, divine or human - except to the king. The law was to be strictly enforced, and anyone found guilty was to be thrown into the den of lions. So they got the king to issue and sign the law so that it could not be changed, an official law of the Medes and Persians which could not be revoked.

When Daniel learnt that the law had been signed, he went home and knelt down as usual to make supplications to God. He prayed three times a day, just as he had always done, giving thanks to his God. When the officials found Daniel praying to God in his home, they went straight to the king and reminded him about his law. When the king confirmed that he had established such a law, the officials told him Daniel had been ignoring his low, for he has been praying to his God three times a day. Hearing this, the king was deeply troubled, and he tried to think of a way to save Daniel. He spent the rest of the day looking for a way to get Daniel out of this predicament. In the evening, the men went together to the king, bringing to his remembrance that no law he had signed could be changed.

The king had nothing to do than to order for Daniel to be arrested and thrown into the den of lions. Before and after he was cast into the den, Scriptures record that: "Now the king spake and said unto Daniel, Thy God whom thou servest continually, he will deliver thee. And a stone was brought, and laid upon the mouth of the den; and the king sealed it with his own signet, and with the signet of his lords; that the purpose might not be changed concerning Daniel. Then the king went to his palace, and passed the night fasting: neither were instruments of musick brought before him: and his sleep went from him. Then the king arose very early in the morning, and went in haste unto the den of lions.

And when he came to the den, he cried with a lamentable voice unto Daniel: and the king spake and said to Daniel, O Daniel, servant of the living God, is thy God, whom thou servest continually, able to deliver thee from the lions? Then said Daniel unto the king, O king, live for ever. God hath sent his angel, and hath shut the lions' mouths, that they have not hurt me: forasmuch as before him innocency was found in me; and also before thee, O king, have I done no hurt. Then was the king exceeding glad for him, and commanded that they should take Daniel up out of the den. So Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no manner of hurt was found upon him, because he believed in his God" (Daniel 6:16-23).

King Darius recognized the anointing that was upon Daniel's life; he believed in the God of Daniel. He recognized the excellent Spirit at work in him and was preferred among the others. It's amazing he was confident God would deliver Daniel. It's recorded that not even a scratch was found on Daniel, because he believed in God. Sometimes when believers encounter certain issues, they ask God questions. Meanwhile, they could look into the face of the problem and declare: "I'm coming out of this, for I know the God I serve." That's what faith is! Can you just believe in God with all your might? It pays a lot! Daniel said the Lord sent His angel to shut the mouths of the lions, such that they could not hurt him. Oh my God!

Later, king Darius "commanded, and they brought those men which had accused Daniel, and they cast them into the den of lions, them, their children, and their wives; and the lions had the mastery of them, and brake all their bones in pieces or ever they came at the bottom of the den. Then king Darius wrote unto all people, nations, and languages, that dwell in all the earth; Peace be multiplied unto you. I make a decree, That in every dominion of my kingdom men tremble and fear before the God of Daniel: for he is the living God, and stedfast for ever, and his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed, and his dominion shall be even unto the end. He delivereth and rescueth, and he worketh signs and wonders in heaven and in earth, who hath delivered Daniel from the power of the lions. So this Daniel prospered in the reign of Darius, and in the reign of Cyrus the Persian" (Daniel 6:24-28).

If the people who accused Daniel were devoured by the lions including their families, why couldn't they touch him? Because Daniel knew his God and the king realized it. Because of the anointing, you may be preferred in your workplace but people will hate you. See, love and do good to them. The only thing you need do is to know God and be bold in him. God doesn't want us to boast in our strength because we're so weak on our own. When you take me minus God, I'm nothing! But I'm somebody truly great, strong and special in God; that's who the believer is. God wants people who can boast in Him. When you see a man, don't define him by his stature; find out the anointing that's upon his life. That's the most important thing to consider.

Don't put your trust and hope in men; only God can truly bring out the real person in you. When the children of Israel were to take over the land of Canaan, of course there were giants there. All the people that Moses sent to spy out the land brought a negative report. It's true that they brought the exact result they found on the scene but it wasn't by faith. The Word says, "...they brought up an evil report of the land which they had searched unto the children of Israel, saying, The land, through which we have gone to search it, is a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof; and all the people that we saw in it are men of a great stature. And there we saw the giants, the sons of Anak, which come of the giants: and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight" (Numbers 13:32-33).

They made the congregation weep that night because of the evil report they brought. Their voices rose in a great chorus of protest against Moses and Aaron. They even complained to Moses the Lord should have left them in Egypt instead of bringing them into a land to die. While the congregation were weeping and murmuring, "Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, which were of them that searched the land, rent their clothes: And they spake unto all the company of the children of Israel, saying, The land, which we passed through to search it, is an exceeding good land. If the LORD delight in us, then he will bring us into this land, and give it us; a land which floweth with milk and honey. Only rebel not ye against the LORD, neither fear ye the people of the land; for they are bread for us: their defence is departed from them, and the LORD is with us: fear them not" (Numbers 14:6-9).

Caleb and Joshua interpreted that from a different point of view, even though the report the other folks brought was true. Already, God had promised to give the land of Canaan to the Israelites so Caleb and Joshua, for their faith in God, saw the situation from the faith-point of view. Just imagine: while the other folks said they saw the giants and were in their face like grasshoppers, Joshua and Caleb said they were like bread unto them. There's a big difference between these two results. As you read further, you'll find out how God got so pleased with Caleb and Joshua. They told the congregation to only believe and not rebel against the Lord. If the Word tells you that you can do something and you go the other way complaining to God, then you're rebelling against Him. There's an anointing upon your life that can get you to accomplish anything.

The other folks' report was the actual thing they saw but the Bible says it was evil and not right. What the Word is telling us is that you don't need to define problems the way you see them. Don't consider and believe they are real. Don't tell yourself or other people you have HIV virus or whatever the disease is, don't voice it out! That's not faith; and it's contrary to the Word of God. The Word of God says "Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen" (Hebrews 11:1). You don't have to see something before you believe. If you're sick, say "I'm healed, in the Name of Jesus!" Why? Because the Word says by Jesus' stripes we were healed (1 Peter 2:24). That's faith! Standing on the Word of God to claim what belongs to you. It's considering the Word of God as the final say in your life, no matter the report you receive.

Pharaoh couldn't kill Moses, no matter how many times he went before him. It was the same with David. The Philistines mustered their army for battle and camped between Socoh in Judah and Azekah at Ephes-dammim. Saul countered by gathering his troops near the valley of Elah. So the Philistine and Israelites faced each other on opposite hills, with the valley between them. Then Goliath, a Philistine champion from Gath, came out of the Philistine ranks to face the forces of Israel. He was a giant of a man, measuring over nine feet tall! He wore a bronze helmet and a coat of mail that weighed 125 pounds. He also wore bronze leggings, and he slung a bronze javelin over his back. The shaft of his spear was as heavy and thick as a weaver's beam, tipped with an iron spearhead that weighed fifteen pounds.

An armour bearer walked ahead of him carrying a huge shield. You can imagine how huge and prepared this warrior was. Goliath stood and shouted across to the Israelites, "Do you need a whole army to settle this? Choose someone to fight for you and I will represent the Philistines. We will settle this dispute in single combat!" If that man was able to defeat him, the Philistines would be their slaves but if not, the Israelites would be slaves to them. When Saul and the Israelites heard this, they were terrified and deeply shaken. David was the eighth and last born of his father (Jesse), and he had three of his elderly brothers in the Israeli army. He was solely attached to taking care of his father's sheep. The Bible says Goliath drew near morning and evening, and presented himself for forty days and no one from Israel's army could come out to fight him.

David actually didn't know Goliath was there until his father sent him to give food to his brothers and the captain of the army. So he went to give the food to his brothers and the captain as he had been instructed by his father. While talking to his brothers, Goliath came out again and spoke the same words: "Choose you a man for you, and let him come down to me. If he be able to fight with me, and to kill me, then will we be your servants: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us" (1 Samuel 17:8-9). As he began to say it again, the Bible says "David heard him;" and it was the first time he heard Goliath talk like that. All the men of Israel, when they saw the man (Goliath), fled from him, and were sore afraid. It was said that the man who could kill Goliath will be enriched by the king with great riches.

Not only that, the king's daughter will be given to him for marriage; and his father's house would be free in Israel. In other words, they will be free from tax! David wanted to be sure, so he enquired from a man that stood by him: "What shall be done to the man that killeth this Philistine, and taketh away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the armies of the living God?" (1 Samuel 17:26). Take a close look at this: God commanded Moses that every Israelite, including their descendants should be circumcised before they could appear before him. If the person was not circumcised, then he was unclean before God. And of course, Goliath wasn't circumcised, for he was a Philistine and not an Israelite!

You see, David was conscious about their relationship with God and he was aware an uncircumcised Philistine could not overcome God's people because he was not a part of the covenant. But that was a young boy David! So the people answered him, telling him what would be done for the man that kills Goliath. Eliab, David's eldest brother's anger got kindled against David when he heard him speak with the men. He asked about his mission there because he was to take care of his father's few sheep in the wilderness. He accused David of pride and naughtiness, and that he was there to have a glance at the battle. David also questioned his brother about his fault in trying to know what's going on. I know David was very bold because his brothers had taken notice of it. When we act and talk the faith-talk, people think we're boasting but it's not so.

People of faith are very bold, and they are normally the people who truly know God, for they know what He can do. You just can't be quiet when you have that revelation knowledge about God. David didn't leave; he got closer to another group of people and enquired about what would be done for the man who could kill Goliath, and was given the same answer. As he kept making those enquires, his question was reported to King Saul, and the king sent for him. When he came to Saul, he gave a remarkable statement: "Let no man's heart fail because of him; thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine" (1 Samuel 17:32). How can you David, a young boy, go and fight this experienced giant, who's been fighting from his youth? - was the question Saul asked him. It's recorded that David persisted! I love this!

He stood his grounds and said: "Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion, and a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock: And I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth: and when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him. Thy servant slew both the lion and the bear: and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the armies of the living God. The LORD that delivered me out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine..." (1 Samuel 17:34-37). If David ever boasted, then he did it in the might of God. That young man had such an unstoppable faith in God! One of the reasons why he was so confident was because he had knowledge about their covenant with God. Knowledge is power; and no wonder God said His people are destroyed for lack of it.

Knowledge also builds up your faith because you know what the God Almighty has said in His Word. Whatever God says is backed by power. You can't fail when you act on His Word! The only thing Saul told him was, "Go, and the LORD be with thee." Saul gave David his own armour - a bronze helmet and a coat of mail. He put it on, strapped the sword over it, and took a step or two to see what it was like, for had never worn such things before. Afterwards, he told Saul, "I cannot go with these; for I have not proved them" (1 Samuel 17:39); and he took them off! He picked up five smooth stones from a stream and put them in his shepherd's bag. Then, armed only with his shepherd's staff and sling, he started across to fight Goliath. But David, you're going to fight a fully armed giant without any protection?

Goliath also had a shield, with which he could even quench the stones. But David didn't care, all that he knew was God and God only; not armours! Wow!
