---
title: 'Fear Not For I Am With You - Part 1'
date: '2012-05-12'
updated: '2012-05-13'
tags: ['fear']
draft: false
summary: 'The Lord says in Isaiah 41:10: "Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness."'
authors: ['default']
---

The Lord says in Isaiah 41:10: "Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness." It's imperative that we have a clear understanding about fear because it's going to affect our attitude to life in general. God takes pleasure in bold people, and the Bible is full of people who showed great courage. The people who dominated and flouted the limitations of life were bold! Fear is a disease and a sickness; it binds people and steals their happiness. We're in a world where there's an economic meltdown, health epidemic, wars, natural disasters and terrorisms. Due to these and other negative things, some people have been shut up, not knowing what to do.

If you're a Christian, that's not your portion! Our opening scripture tells us the mind of God; fear not, for there's nothing to fear. He's with you; do not look around you in terror and be dismayed, for He's your God! He'll strengthen and harden you to difficulties. He'll hold you up and retain you with His victorious right hand of rightness and justice. He doesn't want you cower; he wants you courageous in Him. Moses talks about the right hand of God: "Your right hand, O Lord, is glorious in power; Your right hand, O Lord, shatters the enemy" (Exodus 15:6 AMP). This is the revelation he gave as he was inspired by the Holy Spirit, and that's where God upholds you. One time as Paul began to preach to the Jews, the Bible records that the people opposed and became abusive; but God told him in a vision: "Do not be afraid; keep on speaking, do not be silent. For I am with you, and no one is going to attack and harm you, because I have many people in this city" (Acts 18:9-10 NIV).

When Paul heard this, he didn't stay there for a few days, but a year and half, teaching them the Word of God. In the same way the Lord brought a word to Jeremiah that before he was born, he sanctified and ordained him as a prophet unto the nations. For fear of the people, he emphasized he was only a child and could speak. The Lord said to him: "Say not, I am a child: for thou shalt go to all that I shall send thee, and whatsoever I command thee thou shalt speak. Be not afraid of their faces: for I am with thee to deliver thee, saith the LORD" (Jeremiah 1:7-8). God needs you bold to use you effectively. Jesus stated that in these days, "People will be so frightened that they will faint because of what is happening to the world..." (Luke 21:26 CEV).

But hey, cheer up! For He also said, "These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world" (John 16:33). Hallelujah! We have overcome the world! The truth is that we are in Jesus (John 6:56; John 17:21), and together we are overcomers! We're not trying to overcome something, for the Word says "we are more than conquerors through him that loved us" (Romans 8:37). Our victory is not based on our ability but on account of our union and identity with Jesus. God works with people of faith, for "without faith it is impossible to please him..." (Hebrews 11:6). When you take into account the successful story of Men and Women of God, both in Bible days and after, you'll realize that they were strong in faith. There's a kind of faith that never gives up, no matter circumstance. This is the "stubborn faith!"

"For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world: and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith" (1 John 5:4). God has dealt to every man the measure of faith (Romans 12:3), but you have to develop and grow it by studying more of His Word. Don't give up, and don't give in to your adversaries, for "If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small" (Proverbs 24:10). If you give up in life, Bible says your faith is small. That's why it pays to develop it! You see, learn to take rest even in the midst of turmoil; refuse to cower! Take a look at the ministry of Jesus. One time He was with His disciples in the ship, and Bible records that "And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the ship, so that it was now full. And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow: and they awake him, and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish? And he arose, and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm" (Mark 4:37-39).

We learnt in our previous message that we are kings. Kings don't cower, no matter the circumstance. They are bold all the time and it's the same depicted by our Lord Jesus in this instance. Even though the ship tossed to and fro, the Master was asleep. It was almost filled with water; so does that mean that Jesus wasn't wet? He knew what was going on but He refused to consider it; he rested on His pillow! Learn to be bold, no matter what comes your way. Another time a man named Jairus, a ruler of the synagogue, approached Jesus and pleaded with Him to come into his home and heal his twelve year old daughter. Someone from the ruler's house met them and told him not to trouble the Master (Jesus), for his only daughter is already dead. What? Jesus said to Jairus: "...Fear not: believe only, and she shall be made whole" (Luke 8:50). Glory to God!

When He got to Jairus' home, He saw everyone crying. He told them not to cry, for she's not dead but asleep. Those folks began to laugh at Jesus because He didn't make sense in the realm of the senses. He got everybody out, took the dead by hand and said, "Maid, arise" (Luke 8:54). She that was dead came back to life and Jesus commanded the people to give her food to eat. When the news came to them, He commanded Jairus to take courage and not fear. Jesus could have given in to the news that came, but He refused to consider the report. That's faith! You know, faith makes you look "foolish" for a while, but wait until you get what you want. If you'd carefully consider the folks God used in Bible days, you'll realize He always told them not to fear. He knows the implications fear could bring. In fact most believers have been stopped from functioning effectively in the calling of God upon their lives because of fear.

The story of Lazarus is also a very important one to look at. Jesus already knew that Lazarus was dead before the news came to Him; so He told His disciples Lazarus is asleep so He must go and wake him up. The disciples didn't know what He meant so they gave a reply that it was good for him to sleep. Noticing they didn't get Him, Jesus made it clear to them that Lazarus was dead. And in fact Thomas told the rest of the disciples that they (together with him) should go and die with Lazarus. They had a different view of the matter, but Jesus had the super-mentality. Martha met Jesus on the way and gave a detailed report of all that had happened. Jesus said to her, "Thy brother shall rise again" (John 11:23). Martha, unaware of what Jesus meant, began to interpret it from the standpoint of the resurrection of the dead on the last day.

But Jesus actually meant that he (Lazarus) shall be quickened and come back to life now, even though he had been buried for four days. Everything seemed hopeless, but Jesus neither feared nor gave in to the circumstance. He also wept, but He didn't forget about the mission and purpose for which He was there; something had to be accomplished! He drew closer to the tomb and cried out, "Lazarus, come forth" (John 11:43). He that had been dead came forth and Jesus commanded the people to loose him from the gravecloths and let him go. Hallelujah! The devil and his cohorts can hurt us in no way. Oh, the Word says "Who is this King of glory? The LORD strong and mighty, the LORD mighty in battle" (Psalm 24:8). But hear me, God never fights! Just imagine: Who can stand before Him?

When the devil and his associates misbehaved, God could have driven them out of heaven; but no, he gave the authority to angel Michael to do it. He's just too big for that! Concerning the creation of the world, Bible says "By the word of the LORD were the heavens made; and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth" (Psalm 33:6). Do you remember when the Israelites crossed the red sea on bare land? Moses gives the account of how God parted the sea: "And with the blast of thy nostrils the waters were gathered together, the floods stood upright as an heap, and the depths were congealed in the heart of the sea" (Exodus 15:8). What is there to fear if God lives, not just with you but in you. We are protected on every side by angels; they are our guardians.

The Bible says "The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together, against the LORD, and against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bands asunder, and cast away their cords from us. He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh: the Lord shall have them in derision" (Psalm 2:2-4). You are the anointed of God, and nothing can hurt you! When Saul (who later became Paul) was persecuting the early Christians, the Lord Jesus met him while on his way to Damascus. He called him from heaven and said, "Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?" (Acts 9:4). But Saul was persecuting the Christians and not Jesus. Oh, I get this from where the Scripture says "...we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones" (Ephesians 5:30). The Lord shall laugh at those who think of evil against you.

I love the Psalmist in Psalm 91: "He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. I will say of the LORD, He is my refuge and my fortress: my God; in him will I trust. Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, and from the noisome pestilence. He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thou trust: his truth shall be thy shield and buckler. Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night; nor for the arrow that flieth by day; Nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness; nor for the destruction that wasteth at noonday. A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand; but it shall not come nigh thee.

Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of the wicked. Because thou hast made the LORD, which is my refuge, even the most High, thy habitation. There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling. For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways. They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone. Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder: the young lion and the dragon shalt thou trample under feet. Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will I deliver him: I will set him on high, because he hath known my name. He shall call upon me, and I will answer him: I will be with him in trouble; I will deliver him, and honour him. With long life will I satisfy him, and shew him my salvation."

If God be for us, who can be against us? (Romans 8:31). Do you know more about God? If yes, then there's nothing to fear, for it is written: "...the people that do know their God shall be strong, and do exploits" (Daniel 11:32). It's not those who have God that shall be strong and do exploits, but the people that truly know God. You see, it's one thing to have God, and it's another thing to know Him, not by your senses, but by revelation. These are the strong people, for they truly know who their God is. Sometimes you hear about people being kidnapped and so on and so forth. They question then is: "How do you interpret such news when they come to you." It's your decision that matters! The Word of God, which can never lie, says that a thousand shall fall at your side, and ten thousand at your right hand, but they shall not come near you. How then can they hurt you? That's totally impossible; it's your faith that matters!

In the Old Testament, the king of Syria sent forth horses, and chariots, and a great host to arrest Elisha. They went by night and compassed the city about. The servant of Elisha got up early in the morning and behold, they had been encompassed by horses and chariots. For fear, the servant questioned Elisha about the possible way out. Elisha instructed him not to fear, for they that be with them were more than they (Syrians). For that reason, he prayed that the Lord may open his servant's eyes to comprehend what he was telling him: "And the LORD opened the eyes of the young man; and he saw: and, behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire round about Elisha" (2 Kings 6:17). Elisha and his servant were surrounded by a mighty host of angels. If you'd take the promises of God into account, you'll find out there's nothing to fear. Is it those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul? Jesus said we shouldn't fear them! (Matthew 10:28). Nothing can hurt you!

It's recorded in some places of the Bible that Jesus hid Himself from those who wanted to kill Him. Another time we were told that Jesus fled and so on and so forth. Do you think that Jesus was afraid of them? Absolutely not! On the day of Jesus' arrest for crucifixion, the multitude came to Him with swords and staves. One of those who were with Jesus drew his sword and smote off the ear of the servant of the high priest. Jesus said to him, "Put up again thy sword into his place: for all they that take the sword shall perish with the sword. Thinkest thou that I cannot now pray to my Father, and he shall presently give me more than twelve legions of angels?" (Matthew 26:52-53).

By estimation, more than twelve legions of angels will be more than eighty thousand (80,000) company of angels. Jesus could have gotten those soldiers smitten by angels; so don't think He was afraid whenever the Bible said He hid or ran from the people. The fact is that He didn't want them destroyed because no one could harm Him if the purpose for which He came was not fulfilled. One time He made a bold declaration as He spoke to the Pharisees: "...I lay down my life, that I might take it again. No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again..." (John 10:17-18). If Jesus decided that He wasn't going to die, no one could have touched him; not one. We're just so blessed! The Israelites are a people of God, but through the redemptive work of Christ, we (the Gentiles) have been made heirs of the covenant they have with God.

We're one people. "...Fear not: for I have redeemed thee, I have called thee by thy name; thou art mine. When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee; and through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee: when thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned; neither shall the flame kindle upon thee" (Isaiah 43:1-2), so saith the Lord unto you. Wow! We shall not be burned even if we walk through the fire; we shall not drown when we walk through the rivers, seas, lakes etc, for we're in God! Do you remember king Nebuchadnezzar? During his reign, he made a gold statue ninety feet tall and nine feet wide and set it up on the plain of Dura in the province of Babylon. Then he sent messages to the high officers, officials, governors, advisers, treasurers, judges, magistrates, and all the provincial officials to come to the dedication of the statue he had set up. The officials came as he called and stood before the statue he had set up.

A herald shouted out that people of all races and nations and languages were to listen to the king's command. It was that when they heard the sound of a horn, flute, zither, lyre, harp, pipes and other musical instruments, everybody was to bow down to the ground to worship the golden statue. Anyone who refuses to obey this command will be thrown into the blazing furnace. So at the sound of the musical instruments, all the people bowed to the ground and worshiped the golden image king Nebuchadnezzar had set up. There were some Jews who didn't bow down to the statue when they heard the sound, so some of the astrologers informed the king about the decision of the Jews. These Jews were Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego, who were in charge of the province of Babylon.

When Nebuchadnezzar heard this, he flew into a rage and ordered that those three Jews be brought before him. The king questioned about their refusal to bow down to the statue and gave them another chance to do it. If they refused, the will be thrown into the blazing furnace. He then questioned about the ability of their God to rescue them when he decided to throw them into the fire. They answered the king: "O Nebuchadnezzar, we are not careful to answer thee in this matter. If it be so, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of thine hand, O king. But if not, be it known unto thee, O king, that we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up" (Daniel 3:16-18). What an answer! This is a stubborn faith! Wouldn't you be angry if you were in the shoes of the king? Of course!

He was so fury that the form of his visage became distorted with rage; therefore he commanded that the furnace be heated seven times more than before. Ouch! So the king ordered some of the strongest man in the army to bind Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego and throw them into the blazing furnace. Because the king in his anger, had demanded such a hot fire in the furnace, the flames killed the soldiers as they threw the three men in. Just imagine how hot the furnace could be. If it killed those soldiers, how much more those that will be cast into it? When the three were cast into the furnace, the Bible says, "Then Nebuchadnezzar the king was astonied, and rose up in haste, and spake, and said unto his counsellors, Did not we cast three men bound into the midst of the fire? They answered and said unto the king, True, O king. He answered and said, Lo, I see four men loose, walking in the midst of the fire, and they have no hurt; and the form of the fourth is like the Son of God.

Then Nebuchadnezzar came near to the mouth of the burning fiery furnace, and spake, and said, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, ye servants of the most high God, come forth, and come hither. Then Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, came forth of the midst of the fire. And the princes, governors, and captains, and the king's counsellors, being gathered together, saw these men, upon whose bodies the fire had no power, nor was an hair of their head singed, neither were their coats changed, nor the smell of fire had passed on them. Then Nebuchadnezzar spake, and said, Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who hath sent his angel, and delivered his servants that trusted in him, and have changed the king's word, and yielded their bodies, that they might not serve nor worship any god, except their own God.

Therefore I make a decree, That every people, nation, and language, which speak any thing amiss against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, shall be cut in pieces, and their houses shall be made a dunghill: because there is no other God that can deliver after this sort. Then the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, in the province of Babylon" (Daniel 3:24-30). This is the God we serve; the God of Possibilities! What at all is there to fear brethren in Christ? See, "We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed; we are perplexed, but not in despair; persecuted, but not forsaken; cast down, but not destroyed" (2 Corinthians 4:8-9). Hallelujah! Mine oh mine! Nothing moves us! Neither fire nor water has power over us!
