---
title: 'God Is Not Wicked - Part 1'
date: '2013-02-09'
lastmod: '2013-052-14'
tags: ['Love']
draft: false
summary: "There have been strange happenings in our world today that many have been left hopeless. Don't blame God! The devil will sometimes make you feel God has afflicted you and He's punishing you for doing something wrong."
authors: ['default']
---

There have been strange happenings in our world today that many have been left hopeless. Don't blame God! The devil will sometimes make you feel God has afflicted you and He's punishing you for doing something wrong. Many people have been made to believe the lie that it's not God's will to make them well. It's surprising that some preachers will still tell you the problems you're facing are God's work; that's ignorance gone on rampage! Some say God permits challenges to come our way for a purpose, but that's saying the same thing as He's responsible for commissioning them. God will never use the enemy's tools to teach His children a lesson. God is not wicked, and He's not responsible for the problem and pains in the world today.

God is not the author of the sufferings in the world. He's not responsible for them! He cares for each and every one equally (Psalm 145:9). "How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power: who went about doing good, and healing all that were oppressed of the devil; for God was with him" (Acts 10:38). Satan is the oppressor and the thief; Jesus is the Saviour, Deliverer and Lifegiver! Jesus is God manifested in the flesh (Hebrews 1:3; John 14:9). He's one with the Father (John 10:30); there's no separation!Jesus' life clearly tells us that God is good all the time (1 Chronicles 16:34; Ezra 3:11; Psalm 25:8; 34:8; 100:5; 106:1; 107:1; 118:1, 29; 135:3; 136:1; Jeremiah 33:11; Nahum 1:7).

You see, the natural laws governing the earth today largely came into being with the fall of man, when Adam sinned and the earth was cursed. But these laws were set aside by Jesus whenever it was necessary to bless humanity. That is the reason why the scribes and Pharisees always accused Him for doing wrong. Whenever Jesus saw the sick and helpless He moved with compassion (Matthew 9:36; 14:14; 15:32; 20:34; Mark 1:41; 6:34; 8:2; Luke 7:13). This tells us that the Lord is compassionate towards His people; He's not wicked! Do you think He gets happy when His people become afflicted, poor, and sick and die? Absolutely not! For lack of knowledge people blame God for causing accidents, the sickness and death of loved ones, and such natural catastrophes as storms, earthquakes and floods. God is not to blame because He's not the author of such appalling scenes.

Such problems are as a result of the fall of man, and satan is the author of them. Such things never existed until man knew sin and satan. The Bible says concerning Jesus, "For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil" (1 John 3:8). It also says in Luke 9:56: "For the Son of man is not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them..." Who dare says that God afflicts people with sickness, disease, poverty, death etc? There were lots of accidents, murder and all sorts of evil deeds in Ghana early this year. Many attributed these happenings to God, such that they decided to beg Him to stop them. They thought God was responsible because they had done something wrong. Such people were ignorant in the first place because they didn't know God's plans for them. The Bible says Jesus came to destroy the deeds of the devil, so how can God afflict His people with them? God will never do such a thing.

If God causes harm to people and tries to restore them, He's fighting against Himself. Moreover, Jesus stated that a kingdom that is divided against itself cannot stand (Matthew 12:25; Mark 3:24; Luke 11:17); so how can God work against Himself? He came to save men's lives! Satan is only there to steal and kill and destroy. Jesus came so we can have real and eternal life, more and better life than we ever dreamed of (John 10:10). We have all it takes to deal with the devil. All authority was given to Jesus (Matthew 28:18). He then delegated this authority to us so that we can rule our world and deal with the devil and his cohorts (Luke 10:19). Why do we want God to do something for us while He's given us the ability to handle it? No wonder His children are destroyed for being ignorant (Hosea 4:6). From the Amplified Bible Psalm 82:6 reads, "I said, You are gods \[since you judge on My behalf, as My representatives\]; indeed, all of you are children of the Most High." (See also John 10:34-36).

We're gods because we are God's ambassadors (2 Corinthians 5:20). He says "\[The magistrates and judges\] know not, neither will they understand; they walk on in the darkness \[of complacent satisfaction\]; all the foundations of the earth \[the fundamental principles upon which rests the administration of justice\] are shaking" (Psalm 82:5, AMP). Some believers are walking in darkness because they know not who they are; they have become complacent about progress; they don't know the mind of God in any matter so they accept anything the devil brings their way. The Message Bible translates Psalm 82:5: "Ignorant judges! Head-in-the-sand judges! They haven't a clue to what's going on. And now everything's falling apart, the world's coming unglued." Why should we be questioning God when we're allowing the devil to take over? Because many are in darkness, all the foundations of society are shaken to the core.

The administration of the justice in the world is shaking because the devil has robbed many believers of their rights, thereby, rendering them ineffective. Through ignorance, those whom He's qualified to be gods, "die like men, and fall like one of the princes." (Psalm 82:7). We do not have to die like ordinary men who suffer from poverty, disease and all sorts of infirmities. We'll suffer unnecessarily and die like ordinary men for being ignorant. Some people even think you have to suffer from some form of illness for you to die. No, that's false! You can choose to die rich, healthy, how and when you choose to. This might seem impossible for the religious mind; but to the one that sees Christianity as divinity at work in man, it is possible. Christianity is not religion; it's the life of God at work in man.

The devil and his cohorts will always respond to what we tell them. They cannot disobey us when we stand on our rights and put them where they deserve, under our feet. There is no authority except from God (by His permission, His sanction), and those that exist do so by God's appointment (Proverbs 8:15). Therefore, he who resists and sets himself up against the authorities resists what God has appointed and arranged in divine order. And those who resist will bring down judgment upon themselves, receiving the penalty for them (Romans 13:1-2). God appointed us and the devil can't disobey! Satan is always associated with darkness. Sickness, disease, lack, poverty, death etc, are all forms of darkness. Satan is a thief and hates light. He always wants to work in secret that's why his habitation is darkness. The Bible says, "...God is light, pure light; there's not a trace of darkness in him" (1 John 1:5, MSG).

If that is the case, how then can you attribute such evil acts to Him? He doesn't socialize with wicked; neither does He invite evil over as His houseguest (Psalm 5:4). The Psalmist declares: "For the enemy hath persecuted my soul; he hath smitten my life down to the ground; he hath made me to dwell in darkness, as those that have been long dead" (Psalm 143:3). One of the main objectives of the devil is to keep people in darkness, as the Psalmist declares. Some people have been long dead, even though they are living. They've been kept in bondage all their lives. Surprisingly, this is the main reason Jesus came; to give light to people and deliver them from darkness (bondage). He stated: "I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. I am come a light into the world, that whosoever believeth on me should not abide in darkness" (John 8:12; 12:46). Hallelujah; Praise God!

Why do you think the preaching of the Gospel is prohibited in some parts of the world? "Everyone who makes a practice of doing evil, addicted to denial and illusion, hates God-light and won't come near it, fearing a painful exposure" (John 3:20, MSG). They dwell in darkness with evil deeds so they hate to see light (the Gospel). Jesus put it right: "And this is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil" (John 3:19). They are often infringing upon the rights of people, but they think they are doing right. One time the scribes (religion scholars) and Pharisees led in a woman who had been caught in an act of adultery. They stood her in plain sight of everyone and said, "Teacher, this woman was caught red-handed in the act of adultery. Moses, in the Law, gives orders to stone such persons. What do you say?" They were trying to trap him into saying something incriminating so they could bring charges against him. Jesus bent down and wrote with His finger in the dirt.

They kept at Him, badgering Him. He straightened up and said, "The sinless one among you, go first: Throw the stone." Bending down again, He wrote some more in the dirt. Hearing that, they walked away, one after another, beginning with the oldest. The woman was left alone. Jesus stood up and spoke to her. "Woman, where are they? Does no one condemn you?" "No one, Master." "Neither do I," said Jesus. "Go on your way. From now on, don't sin" (John 8:1-11). God looks into the core of our hearts. This is the reason why we're told to judge not according to appearance (John 7:24). Jesus warns us: "Beware of the scribes, which love to go in long clothing, and love salutations in the marketplaces, And the chief seats in the synagogues, and the uppermost rooms at feasts: Which devour widows' houses, and for a pretence make long prayers: these shall receive greater damnation" (Mark 12:38-40).

There are people who want to appear good but do not know God does not delight in appearance. The Lord sent Samuel to the house of Jesse (David's father) to anoint one that He (God) would choose to rule over Israel. Eliab was big and tough among Jesse's children, so Samuel thought he was the Lord's anointed to be king. The Lord then said to him: "Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature; because I have refused him: for the LORD seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the LORD looketh on the heart" (1 Samuel 16:7). God cares about the heart, that is, the spirit. Instead of choosing somebody big, the Lord chose David, who was the youngest and smallest among his brethren (1 Samuel 16:12). He was even not home when Samuel came around, but he sent for him. Indeed, the Lord doesn't make preference by appearance.

Let's take a look at a profound teaching from the Lord. One day some Pharisees and teachers of religious law arrived from Jerusalem to confront Jesus. They noticed that some of Jesus' disciples failed to follow the usual Jewish ritual of hand washing before eating. The Jews, especially the Pharisees, do not eat until they have poured water over their cupped hands, as required by their ancient traditions. Similarly, they eat nothing bought from the market unless they have immersed their hands in water. This is but one of many traditions they have clung to - such as their ceremony of washing cups, pitchers, and kettles. So the Pharisees and teachers of religious law asked Him, "Why don't your disciples follow our age-old customs? For they eat without first performing the hand-washing ceremony."

Jesus replied, "You hypocrites! Isaiah was prophesying about you when he said, These people honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far away. Their worship is a farce, for they replace God's commands with their own man-made teachings.' For you ignore God's specific laws and substitute your own traditions." Then He said, "You reject God's laws in order to hold on to your own traditions. For instance, Moses gave you this law from God: 'Honor your father and mother,' and 'Anyone who speaks evil of father or mother must be put to death.' But you say it is all right for people to say to their parents, 'Sorry, I can't help you. For I have vowed to give to God what I could have given to you.' You let them disregard their needy parents. As such, you break the law of God in order to protect your own tradition. And this is only one example. There are many, many others."

Then Jesus said to the crowd: "All of you listen," He said, "and try to understand. You are not defiled by what you eat; you are defiled by what you say and do!" He then left to a house to get away from the crowds. His disciples then came to him and asked what He meant by His statement. "Don't you understand either?" He asked. "Can't you see that what you eat won't defile you? Food doesn't come in contact with your heart, but only passes through the stomach and then comes out again." (By saying this, he showed that every kind of food is acceptable.) And then He added, "It is the thought-life that defiles you. For from within, out of a person's heart, come evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, greed, wickedness, deceit, eagerness for lustful pleasure, envy, slander, pride, and foolishness. All these vile things come from within; they are what defile you and make you unacceptable to God." (Mark 7:1-23). Period!

This answers all sorts of questions that originate from people's heart. It's what comes out of you that defile you and not what goes into you. God is more concerned about your heart, that is, your spirit than any other. Jesus came to reveal secrets, and that's why He had many enemies. The Word puts it right: "Now we know that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law: that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. Therefore by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight: for by the law is the knowledge of sin. But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets; Even the righteousness of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe: for there is no difference:"

"For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God; Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus: Whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are past, through the forbearance of God; To declare, I say, at this time his righteousness: that he might be just, and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus. Where is boasting then? It is excluded. By what law? of works? Nay: but by the law of faith. Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law" (Romans 3:19-28).

We look at the law and know we can do nothing than to ask God to help us. God in His infinite mercy has given the solution through Christ. Hallelujah! [Part two](http://www.rhemafromgod.com/god-is-not-wicked-part-2 "God is not Wicked part 2") even has more - let's keep studying.
