---
title: 'God Lives In Us - Part 4'
date: '2013-10-05'
lastmod: '2013-10-12'
tags: ['realities']
draft: false
summary: 'As we day by day receive grace from Jesus, and more constantly recognize it as coming from Him, we shall behold Him in communion with us, and enjoy the felicity of communion with Him.'
authors: ['default']
---

As we day by day receive grace from Jesus, and more constantly recognize it as coming from Him, we shall behold Him in communion with us, and enjoy the felicity of communion with Him. Let us make daily use of our riches, and ever repair to Him as to our own Lord, taking from Him the supply of all we need with as much boldness as men take money from their own purse. This is the mystery: Through the Holy Ghost, Christ indwells us, and we are the Body of Christ. He is the Head, and we are the Body.

Now, can your head have one experience and your body another experience? No, it's impossible. In the same way, the Lord Jesus' victory is our victory. When He overcame demons and evil spirits and put them to nought, that's all marked down to our credit. Then why do people have so much trouble with evil spirits? Because of their wrong thinking! They don't know that in Christ, they've overcome demons and evil spirits. And because they don't know it, they don't act on it. Satan is going to stay there till Adam's lease runs out. Then, thank God, Satan is going to be put in the bottomless pit for a little while, and finally cast into the lake of fire.

Faith in God and His Word that is acted upon will bring results every time. We are members of His body, of His flesh and of His bones (Ephesians 5:30). When Jesus said He was one with God (John 10:30), the Jews picked us stones to throw at Him. Jesus said this because He knew who He was. The Jews didn't have such revelation so they couldn't bear it. Jesus then told them about how it's written in the Word of God that they are gods (John 10:34; Psalm 82:6). Man gives birth to man and an animal gives birth to its kind, not so? In the same way, God gives birth to god. Even in the New Testament we're given a clear revelation: "...he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit" (1 Corinthians 6:17).

We're one with Papa God! Oh, "...both he that sanctifieth and they who are sanctified are all of one: for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren" (Hebrews 2:11). Do you get this! Jesus calls us brethren, for He' bought us; His blood was the currency with which He bought us to Papa God. There's more to this. The Word confirms this: "The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit, that we are the children of God: And if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ; if so be that we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified together" (Romans 8:15-17). "Joint-heirs" means that the participation of one of the parties involved is required for anything to be undertaken; a joint participant.

That's why we're commended to God, and to the Word of his grace, which is able to build us up, and to give us an inheritance among all them which are sanctified (Acts 20:32). We're to renew our minds with the Word (Romans 12:2). If we don' get our minds to align with God's plans for us, we're going to think wrong, acts wrong and speak wrong. And the words we think upon, becomes our belief which results in wrong faith. You're who you think you are (Proverbs 23:7); Words can be your salvation. Words can also be your damnation (Matthew 12:37; Romans 10:9-10; Proverbs 15:4). Do you see how these things are simple, yet very powerful? Jesus bought us as a gift to God: "And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book, and to open the seals thereof: for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation" (Revelation 5:9).

The word "redeemed" as used in this verse is the Greek, "agorazo," which means to go to the market and make a purchase; to buy something as a gift to give to someone. This means that Christ purchased us with His blood, and gave us as gifts to God. See who Papa God is. Jesus, His Son, wants to buy Papa gifts. Of all the things in the world, He saw nothing as best as you. We were esteemed the perfect gift Jesus could buy for God. Man had sinned and was separated from his creator. For Jesus to present us as holy gifts to God, He had to carry our sins upon Himself and die in our place. He died the most shameful death on the cross. He was buried, then on the third day He resurrected from the dead. He ascended and is sat down at the right hand of God (Romans 8:34; Ephesians 1:20; Colossians 3:1; Hebrews 1:3; 8:1; 10:12; 12:2; 1 Peter 3:22).

God "...hath raised us up together, and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus" (Ephesians 2:6). Praise God! We're also seated at the right hand of God, far above principality and power (Ephesians 1:21). Oh, "...ye are complete in him, which is the head of all principality and power" (Colossians 2:10). In Christ all the treasures of divine wisdom (comprehensive insight into the ways and purposes of God) and all the riches of spiritual knowledge and enlightenment are stored up and lie hidden (Colossians 2:9). And the same Bible says that we are complete in Christ? Think about that! I love the Amplified Bible's translation of Colossians 2:10: "And you are in Him, made full and having come to fullness of life \[in Christ you too are filled with the Godhead - Father, Son and Holy Spirit - and reach full spiritual stature\]. And He is the Head of all rule and authority \[of every angelic principality and power\]."

Do you get this! Back in the Old Testament, the children of Judah (Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego) were compared to other children. The Bible records that, "...the king communed with them; and among them all was found none like Daniel, Hananiah (Shadrach), Mishael (Meshach), and Azariah (Abednego): therefore stood they before the king. And in all matters of wisdom and understanding, that the king enquired of them, he found them ten times better than all the magicians and astrologers that were in all his realm" (Daniel 1:19-20). These were children, and they operated in a lower revelation of God than we have today. How much more we that the source of all wisdom dwells? Have you ever thought about that? If we're in Christ, and Christ is the head of all rule and authority, including that of the angelic beings, who are we then? This is why I can cast the devil out of my finances, marriage, business, health etc.

You know some people say that when you cast out a small devil the bigger one will come after you. The senior of the devils (Satan) himself is defeated. That's why Jesus tells us to cast them out (Matthew 10:1, 8; Mark 16:17). I wonder why some believers consider themselves so unworthy. Even in prayer they say, "Oh Lord, you know I am not worthy to stand before you." You're not worthy? If you're not worthy now, then you're never going to be worthy to stand before Him. The blessings of God are not meant to be looked at only, but to be appropriated. Even our Lord Jesus is given to us for our present use. Why do you always prefer to share your problems with your friends and forget about God? Are you burdened with this day's sins? Here is a fountain filled with blood: use it. Has a sense of guilt returned upon you? The pardoning grace of Jesus may be proved again and again.

Come to Him at once for cleansing. Do you deplore you weakness? He is your strength: why not lean upon Him? Do you feel naked? Come hither, soul; put on the robe of Jesus' righteousness. Stand not looking at it, but wear it. Strip off your own righteousness, and your own fears too: put on the fair white linen, for it was meant to wear. Do you feel sick? By His stripes you were healed (1 Peter 2:24). Do you think you're poor? No, you're a kinsman, a mighty man of wealth. You're joint-heir with Him, and all that He has is yours. There is nothing Christ dislikes more than for His people to make a show-thing of Him, and not to use what He's already made available to us. Look at Jesus: When Philip asked Him to show them the Father, Jesus said, "Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? he that hath seen me hath seen the Father; and how sayest thou then, Shew us the Father?" (John 14:9).

He's One with the Father (John 10:30). No wonder the Jews picked up stones to throw at Him because they said He was calling Himself God, and it was blasphemy. But the Scripture says He had equal status with God but didn't think so much of Himself that he had to cling to the advantages of that status no matter what. Not at all. When the time came, He set aside the privileges of Deity and took on the status of a slave, became human! (Philippians 2:6-7). Jesus said to the Jews: "Ye are from beneath; I am from above: ye are of this world; I am not of this world" (John 8:23). Buddha means "the enlightened one," yet when he was dying he said, "I'm still searching for the truth." He lived about 500 years before Jesus came. How come the enlightened one is still searching for the truth? Jesus said, "I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life" (John 8:12).

If Buddha is the enlightened, Jesus is the light! Jesus is the Light Giver! No one comes to Him and walk in darkness; not only that, He's also the Life Giver. Hallelujah! When He begun to talk about Abraham, the Jews wondered. They said, "Thou art not yet fifty years old, and hast thou seen Abraham?" Jesus said again to them: "Verily, verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was, I am" (John 8:56-58). Jesus calls Himself "I am." Do you remember God calling Himself I am? (Exodus 3:14). Then He's saying He's one with the Father. He was in the beginning with God (John 1:1), so He existed years upon years ever before Abraham was born. No wonder He's the way, the truth and the life (John 14:6). Jesus calls us the light of the world, just like Himself (Matthew 5:14). If the Light lives in us, then we're the light. We are not of the world (John 15:19; 17:14).

Jesus gave another testimony of Himself: "As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world" (John 9:5). As long as we're in the world, we're the light of the world. If Jesus says He looks like God, then we also look like God! When someone tells you to show him God, tell him to look at you. The world may be complaining: "There're hardships everywhere; things are not going right." That's different with you. The world should only have influence on its citizens, not us. We are citizens of heaven (Philippians 3:20). So long as you're from above and not here, the world will do everything possible to make you submit to its authority. So what do you do? You've got to impress and enforce upon the world, its systems and way of doing things with your authority and rights in Christ. This is where confession of faith comes in. When the devil throws doubts at you, you say, "Clear off, you devil! I am victorious anywhere, anytime."

That's why we say there's a lifting up, when the men of the world are cast down (Job 22:29). When the people of the world are talking about their weakness, then we confess our strength in God (Joel 3:10), for the joy of the Lord is our strength (Nehemiah 8:10). You can check out the article [The Rhema of God](the-rhema-of-god-part-1) if you want to know more about faith proclamations. We illuminate wherever we go, for we're the light of the world. People are complaining that the world is in a mess, things are bad, there's darkness everywhere. But you say, "The darker the world, the brighter I shine!" The God who said, "Out of darkness the light shall shine!" is the same God who made His light shine in our hearts, to bring us the knowledge of God's glory shining in the face of Christ (2 Corinthians 4:6). We aren't cheap! The Almighty God, whom the children of Israel didn't want to see because of fear, now lives in us.

Paul talks about it: "For ye are not come unto the mount that might be touched, and that burned with fire, nor unto blackness, and darkness, and tempest, And the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words; which voice they that heard intreated that the word should not be spoken to them any more: (For they could not endure that which was commanded, And if so much as a beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned, or thrust through with a dart: And so terrible was the sight, that Moses said, I exceedingly fear and quake:) But ye are come unto mount Sion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels, To the general assembly and church of the firstborn, which are written in heaven, and to God the Judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect, And to Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling, that speaketh better things than that of Abel" (Hebrews 12:18-24).

So never again are we going to pray. "Heavenly Father, I come to you in the Name of Jesus..." Why? Because we are come unto mount Zion, the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem. We are not marching to Zion; stop singing that wrong song. We never leave the presence of God, and we don't pray to Jesus. No. We pray to God, but in the Name of Jesus. We of the New Testament era are the most blessed. In the Old Testament, one had to be anointed to be a king or priest. They had to obey God in order to become God's peculiar treasure, a kingdom of priests and a holy nation (Exodus 19:5, 6). Today, God says to us: "But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people; that ye should shew forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvellous light" (1 Peter 2:9).

Back in the Old Testament, the priests would perform special duties or make special sacrifices for God. God is holy, and He required that the priests must clean up before they begin ministering in the tent of the tabernacle. In our day, we do not need to wash or clean anything in order to become holy. The holy Lord lives in us so we're holy! If places became holy because the presence of God was there, then we are holy because God lives in us; we're filled with His presence. If the ark was the container of God's testimony and the pledge of his presence, we are now the container of God and the pledge of His presence. We carry God in the inside of us - we are His careers! Did you know you should fear nothing? The Ark of God had a devastating and often deadly holiness.The people of Beth-shemesh were severely punished after they had treated the ark without proper respect (1 Samuel 6:19).

A man named Uzzah was killed by the Lord when he touched it with his hand to keep it from tumbling to the ground from a cart (2 Samuel 6:6-9). At the same time, God defended the honour of the ark when it was offered to Dagon, the god of the Philistines. The head of Dagon with the palms of his hands were cut off (1 Samuel 5:4). How dare they put God in the same room with another god? The ark was dangerous to touch because it was the very symbol of God's presence. For this reason God commanded that the ark be placed in the Holy of Holies. It was to be separated from the rest of the tabernacle (and later the temple) by a heavy veil. Today, we have the presence of God, for He lives in us. This should make you strong and confident, with no sense of fear or whatsoever. The God Almighty lives in you now; fear not.

Blessed be God, for giving us a free call, choosing us for Himself. That's why we're entreated not to boast because it's not by works (Titus 3:5). Let's take our place outside with Jesus, no longer pouring out the sacrificial blood of animals but pouring out sacrificial praises from our lips to God in Jesus' name (Hebrews 13:15). We offer sacrifices to God as priests, with praises from our lips. We come from God and belong to God - our genealogy can be traced to Him. We have already won a big victory over the devil and his cohorts, for the Spirit in us is far stronger than anything in the world (1 John 4:4). The person who wins out over the world's ways is simply the one who believes Jesus is the Son of God (1 John 5:5). Our origin is in God, we hail from God. The devil and his cohorts have no power over us, and they know it.

Before Jesus came, we lived in darkness. The devil had authority over us because Adam handed it over to him. When Moses died, there arose a dispute between the chief angel Michael and the devil. They argued about who would have the body of Moses. Michael did not dare condemn the devil with insulting words, but said, "The Lord rebuke you!" (Jude 1:9). He couldn't cast Satan away because by then Satan had the Adamic authority, which is higher than the angelic authority. But when Jesus came, He took it back and gave it to us (Matthew 28:18; Luke 10:19). That's why he tells us to cast him out (Matthew 10:8; Mark 16:17). We are to kick out demons! Power, as translated from these verses is the Greek word "Exousia," and it means "Authority." So Jesus gave us the authority that Satan stole from Adam, and we have every right to cast him out of our families, finances, academics, health and every aspect of our lives.

We can effect the changes we desire, for we've been endued with authority from on high. We are no longer to live under the rule of the devil; he has no influence over us. "Giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light: Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son" (Colossians 1:12-13). We've been already delivered and translated into the kingdom of the Son of God - never again are we going to be delivered. I wonder why some believers still think they need deliverance from the devil. Everything we enjoy as Christians is as a result of our association with Christ. In the Old Covenant for instance, the Lord made a promise to Abraham that He'll bless him and his seed (Genesis 13:15; 17:8).

This is what Paul teaches us about it: "Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made. He saith not, And to seeds, as of many; but as of one, And to thy seed, which is Christ. And this I say, that the covenant, that was confirmed before of God in Christ, the law, which was four hundred and thirty years after, cannot disannul, that it should make the promise of none effect. For if the inheritance be of the law, it is no more of promise: but God gave it to Abraham by promise. Wherefore then serveth the law? It was added because of transgressions, till the seed should come to whom the promise was made; and it was ordained by angels in the hand of a mediator. Now a mediator is not a mediator of one, but God is one. Is the law then against the promises of God? God forbid: for if there had been a law given which could have given life, verily righteousness should have been by the law.

"But the scripture hath concluded all under sin, that the promise by faith of Jesus Christ might be given to them that believe. But before faith came, we were kept under the law, shut up unto the faith which should afterwards be revealed. Wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ, that we might be justified by faith. But after that faith is come, we are no longer under a schoolmaster. For ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. For as many of you as have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free, there is neither male nor female: for ye are all one in Christ Jesus. And if ye be Christ's, then are ye Abraham's seed, and heirs according to the promise" (Galatians 3:16-29).

In Christ there's nothing even like male or female. So why do you argue with someone that says women should shut up in church? We are all one in Christ Jesus! In Christ we have obtained an inheritance (Ephesians 1:11). When Jesus gave Himself for us, He gave us all the rights and privileges which went with Himself; so that now, although as eternal God, He has essential rights to which no creature may venture to pretend, yet as Jesus, the Mediator, the federal Head of the covenant of grace, He has no heritage apart from us. We're joint-heirs!

All the glorious consequences of His obedience unto death are the joint riches of all who are in Him, and on whose behalf He accomplished the divine will. See, He enters into glory, but not for Himself alone, for it is written, "Whither the Forerunner is for us entered..." (Hebrews 6:20). He's appeared in the presence of God for us (Hebrews 9:24). Hallelujah!
