---
title: 'God Lives In Us - Part 6'
date: '2013-10-05'
lastmod: '2013-10-16'
tags: ['realities']
draft: false
summary: "The Christian is perfectly saved in God's purpose; God has ordained him unto salvation, and that purpose is complete."
authors: ['default']
---

The Christian is perfectly saved in God's purpose; God has ordained him unto salvation, and that purpose is complete. He is saved also as to the price which has been paid for him: "It is finished" (John 19:30) was the cry of the Saviour ere He died. The believer is also perfectly saved in His covenant head, for as he fell in Adam, so he lives in Christ (1 Corinthians 15:22). God neither chose them nor called them because they were holy, but He called them that they might be holy, and holiness is the beauty produced by His workmanship in them. The excellences which we see in a believer are as much the work of God as the atonement itself. Thus is brought out very sweetly the fullness of the grace of God. Salvation must be of grace, because the Lord is the author of it: and what motive but grace could move Him to save the guilty? Salvation must be of grace, because the Lord works in such a manner that our righteousness is for ever excluded.

Such is the believer's privilege! We're holy and nothing can change that; not the devil, nor his cohorts can do something about it. Whenever the devil brings charges against you, remember who we have become in Christ Jesus. Another name of God is "Jehovah-Shalom" (Judges 6:24). Israel was being oppressed by the Midianites, because they were doing evil in the sight of the Lord. Every-time they planted they would be invaded and their crops would be destroyed. They were at the point of hiding in the rocks, then God sent an Angel to Gideon. Gideon was scared as you can imagine, but God spoke to him in verse 23 and said "Peace be unto thee; fear not: thou shalt not die". So Gideon built the altar and called it Jehovah-Shalom, meaning God is our peace. "Peace" as rendered in the above scripture is the Hebrew word "Shalom", and it means completeness, soundness, welfare, peace, health, prosperity, tranquillity.

The God of completeness, welfare, peace, health, prosperity and tranquillity lives in me. Therefore, there's nothing I lack in life. When you find yourself in need of something, remember who lives in you. The best way to do this is to continually confess the revelation of God to you. Keep saying it, don't stop talking it. Talking believers always win! The next time you are stressed or in fear, remember that Jehovah-Shalom lives in you. The next name of God is "Jehovah-Tsidkenu" - The Lord Our Righteousness (Jeremiah 23:5-6). Here, King Josiah had instituted reforms to try and bring the people back to God, but they were still rebellious. The spiritual leaders had lied to the people and scattered the followers of God. But as we read in verse 6 Jeremiah prophesied that the Lord would bring forth a righteous branch of David, (Jesus) that will reign wisely, and do what is just and right in the land.

He will be called the Lord of Righteousness. Abraham believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness (Romans 4:3). It was not the law that Abraham and his offspring received the promise, but through the righteousness that comes by faith (Romans 4:13). In the beatitudes Jesus said, "Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they will be filled" (Matthew 5:6). Christ Jesus is made unto us wisdom, and righteousness, and sanctification, and redemption (1 Corinthians 1:30). God made him who had no sin to be sin for us, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God (2 Corinthians 5:21). Jesus is our righteousness! The one who makes people righteous now lives in me; we're the righteousness of God in Christ Jesus; Hallelujah! It will always give a Christian the greatest calm, quiet, ease, and peace, to think of the perfect righteousness of Christ.

How often are the saints of God downcast and sad! I do not think they ought to be. I do not think they would if they could always see their perfection in Christ. There are some who are always talking about corruption, and the depravity of the heart, and the innate evil of the soul. This is quite true, but why not go a little further, and remember that we are "perfect in Christ Jesus". It is no wonder that those who are dwelling upon their own corruption should wear such downcast looks; but surely if we call to mind that "Christ is made unto us righteousness", we shall be of good cheer. Though distresses afflict me, though Satan assault me, though there may be many things to be experienced before I get to heaven, those are done for me by divine grace; there is nothing wanting in my Lord, Christ has done it all. On the cross He said, "It is finished!" (John 19:30).

And if it be finished, then am I complete in Him, and can rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory (1 Peter 1:8); "Not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith" (Philippians 3:9). You will not find on this side heaven a holier people than those who receive into their hearts the doctrine of Christ's righteousness. When the believer says, "I live on Christ alone; I rest on Him solely for salvation; and I believe that, however unworthy, I am still saved in Jesus"; then there rises up as a motive of gratitude this thought - "Shall I not live to Christ? Shall I not love Him and serve Him, seeing that I am saved by His merits?" "The love of Christ constraineth us... that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves but unto Him which died for them" (2 Corinthians 5:14).

If saved by imputed righteousness, we shall greatly value imparted righteousness. Christ has fulfilled the law already - I have no need, therefore, to fulfil it for my salvation. But do I put aside the law and make it void? Absolutely not (Romans 3:31). How would one recognize himself a sinner if there's no law? No one is put right in God's sight by doing what the Law requires; what the Law does is to make us know that we have sinned (Romans 3:20). By the law is the knowledge of sin! This is what drives us to the throne of grace, accept the Lord Jesus as our Lord and Saviour then we are saved (Romans 3:22, 24). When we fall, stumble or sin, Satan tries to tell us that we are unworthy and guilty, or inadequate to do anything for God. That is when we have to stand firm and remind Satan that Christ who lives in us has made us righteous. We can be bold, not in our righteousness, but in HIS!

God is also known as "Jehovah-Shammah" - God is with us (Ezekiel 48:35). In this chapter Ezekiel is describing the Holy City of God and a new temple, and he declares that the name of the city will be "The Lord Is There". Earlier in chapter 10 Ezekiel had a vision of the Glory of the Lord departing from the temple. But in chapter 48 he sees the Glory returning. The fire that left the temple in Ezekiel's day returned on the day of Pentecost and rested on the Apostles, and now dwells inside all who believe. God is HERE, He lives inside of us. You are never alone, Jehovah-Shammah lives inside you, and he has promised never to leave you nor forsake you (Matthew 28:20; John 14:18; Hebrews 13:5). Now the last but not the least name of God is Jehovah-Rohi - the Lord is my Shepherd (Psalm 23:1).

This is an observation of Harriet-Louise Holland Patterson's of shepherding while she was visiting Palestine: "Shepherding does not change much in Palestine, where wild beasts may descend still upon unprotected sheep and suddenly destroy them. The Palestine shepherd lives night and day with his animals. He establishes a degree of intimacy with them which is touching to observe. He calls them by their names, and they knowing his voice and hearing his only, heed. He protects the sheep from thieves and preying animals who would devour them at night by sleeping in the often makeshift sheepfold and they, sensing his watchfulness, fear no evil. He provides pasture and water, even in the wilderness and the presence of enemies and they, casting all their anxiety upon him, are fed."

"There is a singular communion between the shepherd and his sheep which, after one has visited Palestine and observed it, makes the symbol of the Good Shepherd, peculiarity apt and the Twenty-third Psalm strangely moving". Did you know that Psalm 23 contains all the names of God? This is it: "The Lord is my shepherd (Jehovah-Rohi); I shall not want. (Jehovah-Jireh - our provider). He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: he leadeth me beside the still waters (Jehovah-Shalom - our peace). He restoreth my soul (Jehovah-Rophe - our healer): he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake (Jehovah-Tsidkenu - our righteousness). Yea though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil for thou art with me (Jehovah-Shammah - He is with us); thy rod and thy staff they comfort me."

"Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies (Jehovah-Nissi - our standard of Victory); thou anointest my head with oil (Jehovah-M'Kaddesh - our holiness; our sanctification); my cup runneth over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life; and I will dwell in the house of the LORD forever". So you see how Psalm 23 carries a lot of revelations? Oh, how I love the Word of God. Do not say you know everything in the Word. Even if you did, do not lose sight of studying and meditating upon it. Some people belong to the "I've heard it all before class". You did? And what's been your experience from that? If you will dwell on this revelation for long, you're going to win in your everyday life. It's true that those who receive God's abundant provision of grace and of the gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man, Jesus Christ (Romans 5:17).

Do you think one is going to reign in life as a Christian when he has no revelation from the Word of God? No! This is why the Apostle Paul declared in Acts 20:32: "And now, brethren, I commend you to God, and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up, and to give you an inheritance among all them which are sanctified." To commend as Paul instructs us, is the Greek word "paratithemi" and it means "to place beside or near or set before". It's like when you set food before you on a table; this is what it means. Paul is turning us over to God, our marvelous God, whose gracious Word can make you into what He wants you to be and give you everything you could possibly need in this community of holy friends. Holy friends? Yes, because we're a holy nation! It's through the agency of the Holy Spirit by the Word of God that we come to our true selves. Study to show yourself approved unto God. God lives in us, but there's more to it.

Only the Word can tell us more. Let the Word lead you in everything; make sure it's in you. The Bible is one of the most wonderful treasures the Lord has given us; it's the Gift of God without measure. Make sure you're going to travel with it wherever you go. There are reasons why people are not eating the good of the land. And it could simply be because they're not abiding in God's Word - the Book that tells them how to do it! A good deal of our preaching, our thinking, and even our devotions, either vaporize or spiritualize God's promises. Our natural unbelief tends to put off the fulfillment of them until we get to heaven, or to some time in the future. The fact is that unbelief hates literal and present tense promises. But these promises are literal and material; they are for here and now; they are to be enjoyed on earth; they challenge us to a contract or bargain with God.

What do you want in life? Jesus has everything you'd ever need! He laid aside His glory and became a man for you; He gave up His life for you. Fear not! If there were an ant at the door of your granary asking for help, it would not ruin you to give him a handful of your wheat. Can you imagine the wealth of God? You would look nothing but a tiny insect at the door of His all-sufficiency. Do you need more strength than the omnipotence of the United Trinity? Do you want more wisdom than exists in the Father, more love than displays itself in the Son, or more power than is manifest in the influences of the Spirit? Bring your empty pitcher! Surely this well will fill it. Haste, gather up your wants, and bring them here - your emptiness, your woes, your needs.

Behold, this river of God is full for your supply; what can you desire beside? The Eternal God is your helper! We have learnt a lot about the names of God today, but do you know what the most important name to God is? It's your name. The only name God really cares about is YOUR Name, and He wants you saved. The Bible says that He knew you before you were formed in your mother's womb (Jeremiah 1:5), so he knows your name, and he wants it to remain permanently in the book of life; but the only way he will do that is if you give him permission. And the only way to give him that permission is to accept His Son.

[Accept Jesus today](/salvation) as your Lord and personal Saviour. Only then will the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit come to dwell in you. You cannot benefit from what I've shared with you until you're born again. Your life will never be the same after making this most important decision in your life.

God bless you!
