---
title: 'Prosperity In The Bible - Part 4'
date: '2011-09-21'
updated: '2011-09-26'
tags: ['prosperity']
draft: false
summary: 'Just learn to be good to everyone that comes in contact with you. In case you travel or go for an overseas trip, you can bring your employees a small gift in appreciation for operating the business while you were gone.'
authors: ['default']
---

Just learn to be good to everyone that comes in contact with you. In case you travel or go for an overseas trip, you can bring your employees a small gift in appreciation for operating the business while you were gone. When they're going on holiday, give them a blessing to help cover expenses. I am not saying you should compulsory do these but if you can, practice them. God will bless you more. Respect and treat them as you would also want to be treated. A business will grow to its potential only as the owner understands and grows in his purpose. It is the Kingdom of God in action. There is no room for greed when you are consumed with the purpose of the Kingdom of God. All Christians are to give their tithe and offerings. I know some find it difficult to participate in this grace and fail to give their tithe.

"Honor the Lord by making him an offering from the best of all that your land produces. If you do, your barns will be filled with grain, and you will have too much wine to store it all." Proverbs 3:9-10, GNB. "Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the LORD of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that \[there shall\] not \[be room\] enough \[to receive it\]." Malachi 3:10. Immeasurable blessings are promised here for those who are faithful in tithes and offerings. Some pastors are even guilty of heaping condemnation on those who aren't tithing. A man of God said, "Any church leader who encourages his people to tithe for any other reason than to be blessed has a wrong motive." God wants you to participate in His program of blessing and financial prosperity. Giving the tithe enrolls you in God's financial blessing.

Heaven will not go bankrupt because you do not tithe. Rather, you will miss the greater blessing of God in your life. In the book of Haggai, the exiled Jews had been lax in their duties to rebuild the Temple. Because they had neglected the house of God, they had missed out on His blessing. Their crops were failing, they did not have enough food, and they were "putting their money in bags with holes." Haggai 1: 5-6. God then tells them to gather the materials, and go build His house (v.8.) When they obey, God promises that from that day forward, He will bless them (2:19). So just as these people neglected the house of God and weren't prospering, even so does those who do not tithe and give offerings. I pray that God would raise up a generation of business people whose hearts are connected to the Kingdom of God! That His plans and purposes would be theirs, that they would give above and beyond the normal.

That the ministry of giving would operate without measure in their lives and businesses. In recent years there has been talk about the end time harvest, the final thrust that would reap the nations and bring about the coming of the Lord. Those who operate in the ministry of giving will be strategic ministers in this final chapter of human history. For it will take large amounts of finances to support ministries that will literally sweep entire nations into the Kingdom of God. For advancement, we may also think through Dominion & Authority. In Luke 11:2, Jesus taught his disciples to pray for the Kingdom of God to manifest on earth as it was in heaven. Briefly speaking, we could say the Kingdom of God is the influence, rule and reign of God in every realm of human existence. Jesus is the model or pattern son of exhibiting the dominion of God on the earth. He exercised dominion over the elements by causing the storm to cease at His word.

By casting out devils, he demonstrated His dominion over the spiritual realm. Do you see the picture? The life of Joseph is a type and shadow, a forerunner of what God is doing with businessmen today. He was sold into slavery, falsely accused and put in jail. And in one day, he went from prison to Prime Minister. Let's look at Joseph's life and how it challenges Christian business people in our generation. Joseph was an economist, a CEO of a huge business enterprise, a great investor, and also a high-ranking government official. An economist, you ask? Remember how Joseph predicted the 7 years of good times (economic boom), followed by the 7 years of famine (economic recession)? He wasn't just an economist, he was a great economist who could accurately predict turns in the economy. Of course, he predicted it with the help of God, but in your current job or business, isn't that how you're supposed to work, with the help of the Holy Spirit's voice?

Joseph was also the CEO of a huge food-storage business. Joseph had to oversee the business and logistics for storing up food of such magnitude that would be enough to feed millions of people for 7 years. Now to do that, you need top management skills, and Joseph was appointed and anointed by God to do the job. Joseph was also a great investor, in fact, better than most investors today. When he started to accumulate food stocks in the warehouses, he was strategically positioning himself, confident that the prices of food would go up. Doesn't that sound like investing in the stock market, accumulating stocks in view that prices will go up in the future? Joseph was correct in his market views - prices of food soared so high, that in the end he was able to exchange it for all the money, all the livestock and all the lands in Egypt and Canaan. Joseph was so successful; he became the top minister, second only to Pharaoh.

He ruled over the people with great leadership skills, and the masses looked to him for direction and wisdom. In Genesis 47:25, the people said to Joseph, "You have saved our lives, let us find favor in the sight of my lord, and we will be Pharaoh's servants." As business people, this is an integral part of our calling and purpose. We are to enter the marketplace and be such great business leaders that the world will look to us for leadership, for wisdom and also for our favor over them. True success in business is realized when we're influencing and saving lives for the Kingdom of God. When Jacob was old, he called his sons in to pronounce blessings over their lives. When he came to Joseph, he said, "Joseph is a fruitful bough by a well, whose branches go over the wall." Genesis 49:22. I believe this is prophetic for the businessman. Our ministry as business people is to go beyond the walls of the church and into the marketplace, bringing fruit into the Kingdom of God.

In the realm of economics and finance, we have not seen Christians in the place of dominion. But this is rapidly changing. All over the world, Christian business people are bringing the power and influence of God to the workplace. I am hearing reports from different parts of the world how Christians are starting business schools, teaching Kingdom principles as the basis of business. In other regions, I hear Christians are forming banks based on Biblical principles. This is essential and critical in these last days. Scripture puts it plain: "The rich rule over the poor." Proverbs 22:7, GNB. It also says, "Wealth protects the rich; poverty destroys the poor." Proverbs 10:15. It is a fact, wealth brings power and influence. Have you ever seen a nation ruled by a poor man? Do you see business people or politicians seeking the advice of a poor man? Have you ever seen anyone seeking the counsel of a beggar sitting on the street? Of Course not!

The rich rule over the poor. In some democratic nations, it takes an enormous amount of finances to win a national election. Sometimes a common person is excluded from national political office by virtue of his lack of finances. Sure, the political parties contribute a large amount to the candidates. But do you think they will support a poor person? Of course not, they know the principle, the rich rule over the poor. Scripture also puts it: "No one likes the poor, not even their neighbors, but the rich have many friends." Proverbs 14:20. Wealth has a powerful effect on politics and government. Governments in turn rule over the people. Do you see the picture? The rich rule over the poor. As business people, it is our destiny to possess, to take dominion of the economic realm on earth. It is our land to possess, just as the children of Israel were destined to possess the land of Canaan. It is time that we who are rich toward God rule over the rest of the world righteously. So do you plan to remain poor? Refuse it!

We're also to learn to minister to the poor. Ministering to the poor releases the blessings of God. This is perhaps one of the least understood principles of God's Kingdom. Many Christians neglect this vital ministry. In fact, some even consider the poor inferior and have hardened their hearts against them. This attitude is so contrary to the heart of God. Psalms 8:23 says "Defend the poor and fatherless, do justice to the afflicted and needy." Proverbs 21:13 declares: "Whoever shuts his ears to the cry of the poor will also cry himself and not be heard." God is a just God. His righteous judgment demands the poor and oppressed be defended and even helped. This is His nature. As His offspring, it should be our heart and nature also. "Be generous and share your food with the poor. You will be blessed for it." Proverbs 22:9, GNB. There's a Divine principle involved here: generosity releases blessings.

In Esther 4:13-14, Queen Esther, one of the wealthiest women in the Medo-Persian Empire, is told by Mordecai that she has been given her position in order to deliver the Jews from oppression. A good Old Testament example of 2 Corinthians 9:8. Our wealth is also meant to cater for the poor and those in the streets, under bridges etc. We're to bring them to the house of God by delivering them from their present conditions for that's not God's will for them. Earlier we learned that generosity releases prosperity. As we minister and give to the poor and afflicted, blessings are released in our own lives, ministries and businesses. I heard about how Pastor Sunday Adelaja began his ministry in Kiev, Ukraine a number of years ago. They began reaching out to the drug addicts, prostitutes, the poor and those who lived on the streets. God blessed them for this ministry. Today, the influence of the Embassy of God reaches around the world, to every continent!

The church continues this vital ministry as well as to many other segments of society and the blessing of God is flowing like a mighty river through the church. Do you understand the importance of this principle? "When you give to the poor, it is like lending to the Lord, and the Lord will pay you back." Proverbs 19:17, GNB. Giving to the poor activates another principle of God. It is like the law of cause and effect and the law of sowing and reaping. The action sets in motion a reaction. When we give to the poor, it sets God into motion to repay us. Isn't that incredible? Out of our generosity, we give to the poor and then God repays us for our generosity. For the business person, this creates a cycle of giving and receiving of blessing into the business. I know this concept may seem strange to some. But God's ways are much higher than our ways, His thoughts are higher than our thoughts. The principles of His Kingdom are definitely contrary to the world's system.

God is raising up a new generation of business people whose heart is connected to His Kingdom. Their wealth doesn't belong to themselves; it is at God's disposal, ready to be used for whatever purpose He directs. This generation of business people have a revelation of the ministry of giving and actively operate in it. Their hearts are full of generosity, especially for the poor and oppressed. Because of this, God is releasing to them enormous amounts of wealth through their business ventures. Prosperity, real Kingdom prosperity has come to them. This generation is repossessing the economic kingdom from the devil and firmly establishing His Kingdom economically! Amen! Why does the today Christian find it difficult to make wealth? Today you see him in clubs, parties, forming unnecssary groups with umbelievers and even practicing what they believe in. He relies so much on his senses that he has nothing to do with Spirit of God.

There's not a strong relationship between them due to lack of communication. He does not go to church and you hardly find him reading his Bible. Even if he goes to church, he dumps his Bible just after service. Without it you will surely go astray! Read your Bible to be wise, read it to be safe and read it to be prosperous. "Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the LORD; and in his law doth he meditate day and night. And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season; his leaf also shall not wither; and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper." Psalm 1:1-3. This means that those who shun ungodly influences and meditate on God's Word day and night will prosper in all that they do. "Praise ye the LORD. Blessed is the man that feareth the LORD, that delighteth greatly in his commandments.

His seed shall be mighty upon earth: the generation of the upright shall be blessed. Wealth and riches shall be in his house: and his righteousness endureth for ever.' Psalm 112:1-3. Wealth and riches are in the house of those that fear God and delight in His commandments. How do we know a man delights in the commandments of God? By getting a hold of the Word of God and meditating on it day and night, allowing yourself to be so soaked with it. In 2 Chronicles 26:5, as long as King Uzziah seeks God, he prospers. King Hezekiah was one of Judah's godliest kings. As he seeks and obeys God, he prospers in all he does (2 Chronicles 31:21;32:30). We also find out from Nehemiah 1:11; 2:20 that as Nehemiah prays for God to prosper him, and has faith that God will do so. Proverbs 22:4-By humility and the fear of the Lord are riches, and honor and life. Let's learn to seek God in everything we do.

"It is the Lord who gives wisdom; from him come knowledge and understanding. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Never rely on what you think you know. Ask the Lord to bless your plans, and you will be successful in carrying them out." Proverb 2:6; 3:5; 16:3. With Him we shall make no mistake. We've got to be passionate about the Kingdom of God, we need to support the outcast, we've got to bring them in to know that we love them and that there's a God who cares for them. The Word has this advice for you: "Command those who are rich in this present world not to be arrogant nor to put their hope in wealth, which is so uncertain, but to put their hope in God, who richly provides us with everything for our enjoyment." 1 Timothy 6:17.

To conclude, beloved, "Whenever you possibly can, do good to those who need it. Never tell your neighbors to wait until tomorrow if you can help them now." (Proverbs 3:27-28). "...If you have the gift of helping others, do it with the strength that God supplies..." (1 Peter 4:11, CEV). "Don't get tired of helping others. You will be rewarded when the time is right, if you don't give up." (Galatians 6:9, CEV). My deep appreciation goes to [Pastor Gary Carpenter](http://www.garycarpenter.org) and [Rev. David Tinney](https://releasingkings.com) since I learnt a ton from them regarding this message.

God bless you!
