---
title: 'Prosperity In The Bible - Part 1'
date: '2011-09-21'
updated: '2011-09-22'
tags: ['prosperity']
draft: false
summary: 'From Genesis 1:28, God creates man, His highest creation, and tells him to take rule over the earth. For a home, God gives man an idyllic garden called Eden (Genesis 2:10). The name "Eden" means "delight, pleasure, a place where all five senses are satisfied."'
authors: ['default']
---

From Genesis 1:28, God creates man, His highest creation, and tells him to take rule over the earth. For a home, God gives man an idyllic garden called Eden (Genesis 2:10). The name "Eden" means "delight, pleasure, a place where all five senses are satisfied." In the original state which God intended for man, there is no poverty, sickness, death, or defeat of any kind. Of course, sin did enter the world, along with the curses that accompanied it (Romans 5:17). In spite of this, however, God has always had a plan to bless and prosper His people (2 Corinthians 9:8-9). You may ask, "Why is prosperity in the life of the Believer so important?" The reason is that money is needed in the Kingdom of God and it'll always be needed. When it comes to money matters, most believers don't want to be part but they don't know they're actually missing out the plans of God for their lives.

It's absolutely God's will for you to prosper and do well in all that concerns you. It doesn't matter how small or useless people might think of your work but the Lord can turn it out for something truly amazing. Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, the patriarchs of the faith, were fabulously wealthy men, made rich by the blessing of God. Concerning Abraham, Bible says "And Abraham was old, and well stricken in age: and the LORD had blessed Abraham in all things" (Genesis 24:1). Bible says the Lord blessed Abraham, not just in certain aspects of his life but in all things. The Darby Bible translates this same verse this way: "Now Abraham was old and far on in years: and the Lord had given him everything in full measure." This translation says that God gave Abraham everything in full measure. In other words, God gave Abraham everything in total amount or extent. He was a complete man. God brought Abraham to maximum potential.

Even Abraham's servant testified of his master (Genesis 24:35). For Isaac, Bible says "...and the LORD blessed him. And the man waxed great, and went forward, and grew until he became very great: For he had possession of flocks, and possession of herds, and great store of servants: and the Philistines envied him" (Genesis 26:12-14). People envied Isaac for his prosperity and don't worry if people treat you the same way because Men and Women of God are already facing persecutions for their wealth. To Jacob, Bible says "And the man increased exceedingly, and had much cattle, and maidservants, and menservants, and camels, and asses" (Genesis 30:43). The first time the word "glory" is used in the Bible, it is in reference to Laban's wealth (Genesis 31:1). "And the LORD was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man; and he was in the house of his master the Egyptian.

And all countries came into Egypt to Joseph for to buy corn; because that the famine was so sore in all lands" (Genesis 39:2, 41:57). Even though Joseph's brothers had sold him into slavery, God still prospers him. Joseph's prosperity continues, even in the midst of a horrible famine. This quotation brings to mind when Bible said "For the LORD your God will bless you as he has promised, and you will lend to many nations but will borrow from none" (Deuteronomy 15:6). Then we can also look at our opening scripture where it says that God is able to make all grace, that is, every favour and earthly blessing come to you so that no matter the circumstance and the need, be self sufficient, requiring no aid or support and furnished in abundance unto every good work and charitable donation. Wow! This is exactly what was manifested in Joseph's life. The wealth we make is not based on the hard work we think we do but the power of God.

"But thou shalt remember the LORD thy God: for it is he that giveth thee power to get wealth, that he may establish his covenant which he sware unto thy fathers, as it is this day" (Deuteronomy 8:18). I have found that it is easier to accidentally slip into "works" instead of "grace" in the area of our prosperity than in any other realm of life. We don't mean to do it, but we seem to naturally gravitate toward works when it comes to God prospering us. "That everyone may eat and drink, and find satisfaction in all his toil - this is the gift of God. Moreover, when God gives any man wealth and possessions, and enables him to enjoy them, to accept his lot and be happy in his work - this is a gift of God" (Ecclesiastes 3:13, 5:19). To enjoy the fruit of our labor is a gift from God. Sometimes we work so much that we get into the night and even work on Sundays. I'm not saying it's wrong but relax; it's the grace of God that causes us to prosper!

We read from the Bible: "The blessing of the Lord makes one rich and He adds no sorrow with it" (Proverbs 10:22). The Hebrew translation say's, "The Blessing of the Lord makes rich and hard work or toil adds nothing to it." Period! Hard work and toil which is fatigue in body and mind in attempting to get ahead will not stand against the blessing! Mankind is forced to have to toil for His provision because of the curse which exists as a result of the fall of Adam and Eve when they sinned. When Adam and Eve fell into sin they lost their relationship with God, they lost their assignment in God and they lost their provision in God. Adam is now cast out of Eden which is the Garden of Plenty. He must now wander and survive outside of God's favour. He must now toil to meet his needs. This is a perfect picture of man today: Lost, Alone and Toiling! This is the curse on mankind.

To God be the glory, that the curse is broken because of what Jesus Christ accomplished on the Cross, so that the Blessing may take effect (Galatians 3:13-14). Every person who is in Covenant with God through faith in Jesus Christ immediately receives the blessing of God. This blessing gives the born again Christian the power to produce, the anointing of God by which divine favour flows the covenant of the New Testament overrides the curse. When a person is born again, he has his sins forgiven and receives eternal life from God. That life qualifies him for the blessings Adam and Even enjoyed in the Garden of Eden which also contains many more benefits. "But, my loved ones, though we say this, we are certain that you have better things in you, things which go with salvation" (Hebrews 6:9, BEB). This verse say's there are 'better things' which accompany salvation. Those better things pertain to your whole life - Spirit, Soul, Body, Relationship and Finances.

Now that the 'Blessing' is operating in your life you have full access to God's Economy of Abundance! "I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favour to men of skill; but time and chance happeneth to them all" (Ecclesiastes 9:11). This verse tells us that to make it in life, it's not by power or might but the Grace of God. There are times or seasons, casual to men, but known by God, in which He alone will prosper men. From Deuteronomy 28:1-14, we realize that the blessings for obedience to God include many material benefits. "This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth; but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein: for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success" (Joshua 1:7).

God tells Joshua that if he will meditate (Hebrew:"speak, mutter" see Strong's # 1897) on His Word day and night and observe to do the Word, his way will be prosperous and successful. An article on this blog - [The Rhema of God](the-rhema-of-god-part-1), will teach you how to study the scriptures and make them a reality in your life. Search through the "blog archive" if I have it there. If not, check back soon because I will post that message very soon. "And Naomi had a kinsman of her husband's, a mighty man of wealth, of the family of Elimelech; and his name was Boaz. The LORD recompense thy work, and a full reward be given thee of the LORD God of Israel, under whose wings thou art come to trust" (Ruth 2:1, 12). Boaz, a mighty man of wealth, speaks a prosperity blessing over his young wife, Ruth, who had embraced the true God, in spite of her pagan heritage. We need to find out what God requires of us and do them.

"And keep the charge of the LORD thy God, to walk in his ways, to keep his statutes, and his commandments, and his judgments, and his testimonies, as it is written in the law of Moses, that thou mayest prosper in all that thou doest, and whithersoever thou turnest thyself: That the LORD may continue his word which he spake concerning me, saying, If thy children take heed to their way, to walk before me in truth with all their heart and with all their soul, there shall not fail thee (said he) a man on the throne of Israel" (1 Kings 2:3-4). David tells his son Solomon to walk in the ways of God, and if he does, he will succeed in all he does. "And I have also given thee that which thou hast not asked, both riches, and honour: so that there shall not be any among the kings like unto thee all thy days" (1 Kings 3:13). Solomon's story inspires me so much. Upon all the wealth in the world, when God asked him what he needed, he told Him wisdom was all that he needed. Wow!

God was pleased with Solomon's speech so much as that He chooses to give him both wisdom and riches which puts Matthew 6:33 in action! In 1 Chronicles 4:10, we come across the popular prayer of Jabez, which includes a prayer that God would bless him and enlarge his territory. We then read that God granted his request. Sometimes we seem to judge preachers who talk about the prosperity of the believer. King Jehoshaphat made a very important declaration in the Bible as directed by the Spirit of the Lord. The Bible says, "Early in the morning they left for the Desert of Tekoa. As they set out, Jehoshaphat stood and said, "Listen to me, Judah and people of Jerusalem! Have faith in the LORD your God and you will be upheld; have faith in his prophets and you will be successful."" (2 Chronicles 20:20). Trust God's prophets because they tell you the mind of God concerning you. If you do, you will prosper.

The story of Job also comes to play. The Bible says, "And there were born unto him seven sons and three daughters. His substance also was seven thousand sheep, and three thousand camels, and five hundred yoke of oxen, and five hundred she asses, and a very great household; so that this man was the greatest of all the men of the east" (Job 1:2-3). Job was a man whom God had blessed with great wealth. However, Satan viciously attacked him, and Job lost practically everything he had. All too often, people stop here, and don't read on to the end of the story, when God responds to Job's prayer, and restores to him twice what he had before! Job 42:10. A powerful illustration of John 10:10 which refers to Satan as the thief and God the deliverer! Just think about having twice what we just read from the first chapter of Job. This is amazing but that's how God is able to bless His children. He can even do more than that.

So, it doesn't matter what you've already gone through, "Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the glory of the LORD is risen upon thee" (Isaiah 60:1). What you've got to realize is that God does not take pleasure in your failure, poverty or lack. "Let them shout for joy, and be glad, that favour my righteous cause: yea, let them say continually, Let the LORD be magnified, which hath pleasure in the prosperity of his servant" (Psalm 35:27). From this scripture it's plain that God takes pleasure in your prosperity. Remember God lacks nothing, He's not poor and He's not a failure. Whatever He does and says comes to pass. I also want to tell you this. If you have hatred for nation of Israel, be careful because that can hinder your prosperity. Why should you even develop hatred for your brethren if you have the Spirit of the Lord in you? Psalm 122:6 says, "Pray for the peace of Jerusalem: they shall prosper that love thee."

When you read the entire chapter, you'll realize that God's talking about the nation of Israel in General. Those who bless and love Israel will prosper. Let's also find out what God told Abraham. "Now the LORD had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will shew thee: And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing: And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed" (Genesis 12:1-3). Abraham's descendants became the nation of Israel so be very careful how you treat them. God promised to bless those that blessed Israel and curse those that cursed them. Every government that has persecuted the Jews has fallen even to modern times. The Russian government, which has had a national policy of persecution of the Jews, is in shambles.

However, the United States, who has always been the friend of the nation of Israel, has prospered greatly. No matter how intense has been the persecution of Israel, God has protected them. In 1967, in what is called the Six Day War, the tiny nation of Israel utterly destroyed all the combined efforts the Arab nations which surround them. It has been called one of the greatest military victories in history. Against impossible odds they repelled everything the Arab threw at them. They not only defeated these forces, but took great amounts of land including in the south the Gaza Strip to the Nile River, the West Bank and all of Jerusalem. Surely God's protecting hand is upon this small nation. Don't make up your mind that because of this you will love only the nation of Israel. This is because we were all made descendants of Abraham when Christ died for all. Bible says, "And if ye be Christ's, then are ye Abraham's seed, and heirs according to the promise" (Galatians 3:29).

The Apostle shares with us a secret. He said, "This mystery is that through the gospel the Gentiles are heirs together with Israel, members together of one body, and sharers together in the promise in Christ Jesus" (Ephesians 3:6). So love all nations and pray for them - especially the nation of Israel. In this way, you will be blessed!
