---
title: 'Speaking in Tongues - Part 2'
date: '2011-08-09'
lastmod: '2011-08-12'
tags: ['power']
draft: false
summary: 'So how does speaking in tongues operate? In order to answer this question properly, we must look at the fact that the Bible describes three different manifestations of speaking in tongues...'
authors: ['default']
---

So how does speaking in tongues operate? In order to answer this question properly, we must look at the fact that the Bible describes three different manifestations of speaking in tongues: They are the Evidential Tongues which is the initial evidence when someone is baptized in the Holy Spirit (Acts 2:1- 4; 10:44-46; 19:2-7). The second is the Intercessory Tongues which is the ability to pray in other tongues or in the Spirit (1 Corinthians 14:14-16; Ephesians 6:18; Jude 20), in order to pray beyond our limited human understanding, speaking mysteries to God (1 Corinthians 14:2) and edify ourselves (1 Corinthians 14:4). The word "edify" means to "build up" or "charge up" - much like charging up a battery. We all need a spiritual charge. All of us at times feel spiritually drained. One of God's ways to charge your spirit is through speaking in tongues.

The last but not the least we have the Ministry Gift of Tongues, described in 1 Corinthians chapters 12 and 14, which involves giving a message in tongues in a public worship service, which is to be interpreted (1 Corinthians 12:10). This is a powerful sign to unbelievers (1 Corinthians 14:22). This gift is only given in certain situations, as the Spirit wills. Therefore, not all Christians are used in this gift, that is, the interpretation of tongues (1 Corinthians 12:30). We may also try to figure out if Jesus did speak in tongues while He was on earth. Actually, I'm not totally sure that He didn't because from the Bible, we come across certain terminologies that Jesus rejoiced in the Spirit (Luke 10:21) and groaned in the Spirit (John 11:33), which are very similar to the term "Praying in the Spirit," which Paul uses to describe praying in tongues in 1 Corinthians 14:14-16.

However, even if Jesus did not speak in tongues, there are several possible explanations because, since He was God, there were no languages He didn't know, He was sinless, He had perfect communication with the Father and therefore, He did not need tongues; He was the last person to function as a prophet under the Old Covenant. Tongues are a New Testament phenomenon. Even if Jesus didn't personally speak in tongues, He Himself stated that tongues would be a normative sign to follow believers (Mark 16:17) and the entire New Testament was written by people who spoke in tongues. So, are tongues the least of the gifts and are they really that important? In 1 Corinthians 12, the Apostle Paul gives us a basic primer on the nine Gifts of the Holy Spirit: Wisdom, knowledge, faith, healing, miracles, prophecy, discernment, tongues and interpretation of tongues.

Since tongues and interpretation are the last Gifts Paul mentions, some have taken this to mean that tongues are the least important of the Gifts, and that we shouldn't really be concerned with them. However, I would respectfully reply that this argument is based on a very presumptuous and inconsistent approach to Biblical interpretation. Chronological order of how something is listed is not necessarily an indication of importance. For example, in 1 Corinthians 13:13, Paul tells us that faith, hope, and love remain, yet the greatest of these is love, in spite of the fact that it is listed last. Likewise, in a list of sinful activities recorded in Galatians 5:19-21, murder is named near the end of the list. Does that mean that murder is a less serious sin than the others? Of course not! Paul definitely did not view tongues as being unimportant. In fact, he devotes an entire chapter in the Bible to teaching on the subject (1 Corinthians 14).

In that chapter, Paul tells the Corinthian believers that he desires that they all speak in tongues (1 Corinthians 14:5), and thanks God that he speaks in tongues more than all of them! (1 Corinthians 14:18). Three times in Scripture are we exhorted to covet, that is, pursue with passion, the Gifts of the Holy Spirit including tongues (1 Corinthians 12:31; 14:1, 39) and interestingly, the same Greek word is used in all of these Scriptures. Note that this is worded as a commandment, not an option. To downplay or dishonor any of God's gifts is to dishonor God Himself. May we never, ever fall into this trap! Tongues is not something to be feared; not at all. Tongues are a wonderful tool God has given His people to enjoy His presence more fully and intimately, and to make us more effective in our service for Him. Being a supernatural phenomenon, speaking in tongues is approached somewhat hesitantly or waveringly by many Christians.

However, this is nothing new. In the Bible, when God's presence showed up in a tangible manner, it was not unusual for onlookers to respond with fear. We see this in events like the angelic vision the shepherds had when Jesus was born (Luke 2:8-12), when the disciples saw Jesus walk on water (Mark 6:45-50) and when John had his vision of the risen Jesus (Revelation 1:4-17). Notice that each time, the first reaction of the people who witnessed these supernatural occurrences was to be afraid. However, in each of these cases, these people were assured to "Fear not," or "Be not afraid." In Luke 11:9-13, Jesus makes the solemn promise that if you ask God for bread, He isn't going to give you a stone. According to verse 13, the context of this verse is asking the Father for the gift of the Holy Spirit. The work of the Holy Spirit in a Christian's life is something to be cherished, not feared.

It is the purpose of this series of messages to share with you one of the important ways that the Spirit does work in people's lives to draw us closer to Him, and to the ultimate goal: Christlikeness. 2 Corinthians 3:18 puts it so beautifully: "But we all, with open face beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed (metamorphosed) into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. Let's also find out if tongues are available to all Christians. In 1 Corinthians 12:30, Paul asks the hypothetical question "Do all speak in tongues?" This has led some to the conclusion that tongues as a whole are only for a select few Christians. However, as we discussed in our last message, there are three different manifestations of tongues. The context of Paul's above mentioned statement is a discussion of the gifts of the Holy Spirit, tongues being one of them. He is giving instruction for the proper use of the gifts in a church service.

When Paul speaks of tongues in this setting, he is referring to the ministry gift of tongues, which, as previously stated, is only one of the three, and is only given by the Holy Spirit in certain situations. This type of tongues is a sign to unbelievers. However, we read other instances in Scripture where people spoke in tongues, and no unbelievers were present (Acts 10:46; 19:6). As for the other two manifestations of tongues, however, there are a number of Scriptures that clearly teach that they are for all Christians:

1. Jesus said, "These signs shall follow THEM THAT BELIEVE... and one of them being they shall speak with new tongues.
2. At the initial outpouring of the Holy Spirit on the Day of Pentecost, ALL spoke with tongues.
3. Throughout the Book of Acts, there is a consistent pattern of tongues being the initial evidence when someone is baptized in the Holy Spirit (Acts 2:1-4; Acts 10:44-46; Acts 19:2-7).
4. Paul desired all Christians to speak in tongues (1 Corinthians 14:5).
5. The exhortations to "Pray in the Spirit" (Ephesians 6:18) and "in the Holy Ghost" (Jude 20) terms synonymous with praying in tongues (1 Corinthians 14:14-1) are directed to all Christians.

I compare it to this: All Christians are to have faith (Mark 11:22; Ephesians 2:8) but some have a special GIFT of faith (1 Corinthians 12:9). All Christians are to be merciful (Matthew 5:7; Luke 6:36) but some have a special ministry gift of mercy (Romans 12:8). Likewise, the wonderful experience of praying in tongues is available to all Christians, but some have a special public ministry gift of tongues.

## THE BAPTISM IN THE SPIRIT

Now let's find out the connection between tongues and the baptism in the Holy Spirit. Let us look carefully at the first scriptural account of speaking in tongues: When the day of Pentecost came, they were all together in one place. Suddenly a sound like the blowing of a violent wind came from heaven and filled the whole house where they were sitting. They saw what seemed to be tongues of fire that separated and came to rest on each of them. All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit enabled them. This experience is what John the Baptist and Jesus called the baptism in the Holy Spirit. This was the fulfilment of Jesus promise, In a few days you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. Every Christian believes in baptizing in water but few accept the better baptism - the baptism in the Holy Spirit.

Since you were willing to be baptized in water, shouldn't you also be willing to be baptized in the Holy Spirit? The Baptism in the Holy Spirit is a supernatural empowerment from God into the Christian's life. It can happen at the moment a person is first saved, but as we progress in our discussion, you will find out it's normatively an event subsequent to salvation. Theologians often confuse the baptism in the Holy Spirit with salvation. They often regard these two experiences as being the same. This confuses believers. They incorrectly assume that salvation is the same as the baptism in the Holy Spirit. The Bible does not teach this. The Bible clearly teaches that the baptism in the Holy Spirit is a separate experience from salvation and comes after a person is saved, although it can occur at the time of salvation. The story of the Samaritan converts plainly proves this (Acts 8:5-25). Philip preached to them about Christ, the people joyfully accepted the gospel and were born again.

They confirmed their faith by being baptized as well. Yet, despite the fact that these folks were truly saved, Philip called for the apostles to come and pray for them that they would receive the Holy Spirit. It is clear from this story that being saved is not the same as receiving the Holy Spirit, although the Holy Spirit is definitely involved in salvation. Another biblical story from Acts 19:1-7 illustrates this fact. Paul met some disciples of John the Baptist. He thought they were believers in the Lord Jesus, because they talked so much about repentance. Paul, unaware that they were only disciples of John, yet knowing something was missing in these men, asked them an obvious question, "Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed?" The question itself proves that Paul, including the early church, believed that it was possible to be a believer in Jesus without having received the Holy Spirit.

If receiving the Holy Spirit was automatic at conversion, then why Paul did asked the question, "Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed?" Since the baptism is a supernatural experience, it would stand to reason that it would be accompanied by a supernatural sign or evidence. Looking at the Biblical pattern, we see that this sign is speaking in tongues. There are five recorded instances in the Book of Acts of people receiving the baptism. Each time, it either says the people spoke in tongues, or at least strongly implies that they did. Let's look at each case on an individual basis:

1. The Day of Pentecost in Acts 2:1-4. As we stated earlier, the Holy Spirit was first poured out on the day of Pentecost. Of the 120 people who received the Spirit, every one of them, without exception, spoke in tongues (including, interestingly, Mary, the Mother of Jesus (Acts 1:14). Note particularly the impact this experience had on Peter. In chapter 2, verses 14-41, we see the same disciple who had three times denied Jesus, now stood in the face of a hostile crowd and boldly proclaimed the Gospel, resulting in 3000 people coming to Christ!

2. The Believers at Samaria in Acts 8:14-24. Here the apostles received the wonderful news of the Gospel spreading into Samaria. Upon hearing this, they immediately sent Peter and John to pray for them, so that they could receive the Holy Spirit. While they are ministering to these believers, a sorcerer named Simon sees this miraculous event, and offers Peter and John money for the ability to impart the Holy Spirit to others. Of course, Peter sharply rebukes him, telling him he has no part or lot in this matter (Acts 8:20). Although this account does not specifically mention tongues, it is important to notice two things:
   1. Simon saw that the Holy Spirit was being given (Acts 8:18); therefore, there must have been some sort of tangible evidence of the Holy Spirit's impartation.
   2. In verse Acts 8:20, when Peter tells Simon that he has no part or lot in this matter, it is interesting to note that the word "matter" in the Greek can also be translated "utterance!" Simon had no part or lot in the utterance that he saw. Keeping these two things in mind, as well as comparing this event with others like it in Scripture, I believe it is perfectly safe to say that the evidence that Simon saw was the utterance in tongues of those whose lives were being transformed by this marvellous work of the Holy Spirit.

Let's also find out from the story of Paul and Ananias in Acts 9:17-18. After his dramatic encounter with God on the road to Damascus, Paul receives a visit from a man named Ananias, who was sent by God so that Paul, who had been blinded during the Damascus encounter, might "receive his sight, and be filled with the Holy Ghost". Although this particular passage does not state that Paul spoke in tongues, we know he did because he later wrote to the Corinthian church "I thank my God I speak in tongues more than you all (1 Corinthians 14:18).
