---
title: 'The Superior Man in Christ - Part 2'
date: '2011-09-11'
lastmod: '2011-09-14'
tags: ['authority', 'power', 'realities']
draft: false
summary: "There's no need running around seeking deliverance from sin or from the devil; you've been delivered already (Colossians 1:13). It's your responsibility not to allow yourself become entangled by any yoke of bondage."
authors: ['default']
---

There's no need running around seeking deliverance from sin or from the devil; you've been delivered already (Colossians 1:13). It's your responsibility not to allow yourself become entangled by any yoke of bondage. Take advantage of your complete liberty in Christ Jesus and stay in it. The budget or economy of your country shouldn't by any means determine your financial status in life; you've been freed from that. It might seem difficult to believe it but if you're born again, this shouldn't be difficult. Learn to accept things from the Spirit realm as they are because the mind is limited. You might make mistakes as you use your mind to discern the things of the Spirit. You've been freed also from that wheel chair, that habit, or that disease. Therefore, stand up and enjoy your inheritance now, in the Name of the Lord Jesus!

"Stand fast therefore in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free, and be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage" (Galatians 5:1). "If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed" (John 8:36). As new creations, we're superior to angels on account of our identity with Christ. The Bible says we're joint heirs with Christ. "And if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ; if so be that we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified together" (Romans 8:17). We are sons of God, "Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God: therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that, when he shall appear, we shall be like him; for we shall see him as he is. And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he is pure" (1 John 3:1-3).

We are born of the Spirit of God! The angels are His servants; they are ministering spirits, sent to minister for us, whom the Bible describes as the heirs of salvation. As one who's born again, you are directly joined with Christ; you are one with Him; "But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit" (1 Corinthians 6:17). Angels are powerful. They are more powerful than we are in might and strength, but we have authority in the Name of Jesus, and the angels are subject to Jesus. They listen to Him and obey Him, and we are in Him. "Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment: because as he is, so are we in this world" (1 John 4:17). The Name of Jesus is the greatest name in heaven and in the earth, and we live in that Name. This is what makes us superior to angels. It's not that we achieved it; it's the result of what Christ Jesus did for us and made of us.

This is why it's scripturally wrong for Christians to pray to angels or pray through them; for we are actually superior to angels. The new type of man is a custodian of divine secrets because he has the fear of the Lord in him. "What man is he that feareth the Lord? him shall he teach in the way that he shall choose. His soul shall dwell at ease; and his seed shall inherit the earth. The secret of the Lord is with them that fear him; and he will shew them his covenant" (Psalm 25:12-14). And some are what I'm sharing with you now. Wouldn't you love to be the one the Lord reveals His secrets to? The Bible says the Lord reveals His secrets to those who fear Him. 'Fear' in this Scripture doesn't refer to being afraid of someone or something. The Hebrew word translated 'fear' here means 'reverential fear.' When you revere God and His Word you would have more of His secrets revealed to you. That's the secret and you must understand this!

What gives me the confidence to say to people, "If you do this-and-that, your life will never be the same again?" How do I know it would work? It's because the secret of the Lord is with me! That secret is revealed to you when you know the Word and act on it. That is what brings you on target and ensures you don't fail in life. I have committed myself to acting on God's Word and obeying His voice. So I can tell where I'm going; I can tell what my life is going to be like because I've already seen it in the Word. From the Word of God I know my life can only be glorious! No wonder God "wilt shew me the path of life..." (Psalm 16:11). What I'm showing to you right now is the path of life. If you were following another one, then you're on the wrong path. It's time to choose right; it's time to commit yourself to doing the Word. Only then will you become a custodian of divine secrets.

I have absolute confident in God "For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion: in the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me; he shall set me up upon a rock" (Psalm 27:5). "Then was the secret revealed unto Daniel in a night vision. Then Daniel blessed the God of heaven" (Daniel 2:19). There are secrets the Lord reveals to those that revere Him. Let God and His Word be on top of your priority list every day. Do you know that God has never failed and He'll never fail? There's absolutely no failure with God and it's so with you. Failure shouldn't be consistent with you as it's inconsistent with God. Learn to rest in God and I know, "Being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ" (Philippians 1:6). This scripture should remind you of the fact that you're not walking alone.

It lets us know that God is more interested in our success than we could ever be. He is the One perfecting our lives, ensuring success in everything we do. So you see, it's impossible for me to fail! The real Christian doesn't fail! You say, "I know I'm a real Christian, but..." You must understand this: the Bible says, "...as he (Jesus) is, so are we in this world" (1 John 4:17). Did Jesus ever fail? Was there any moment in His earthly ministry when He wished He never came? No! You must come to the realization that real Christians don't fail. For example, you can ride on a donkey, a horse or any other beast of burden, but definitely not a chicken. It's inconsistent with its nature. Christians don't fail. Failure is inconsistent with our nature in Christ. Do you know that you will fail if you don't know these things? This is what has been happening to some of God's children. God says in Hosea 4:6, "My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge..."

A Christian can fail or be poor if he lacks the required knowledge of God's Word. Get a hold of the Word of God; study it as though it were your only hope in this life and it is. A Christian may continue to suffer different kinds of sicknesses in his body just because he is ignorant of the Word. In fact, he may even die in his ignorance. That's never the will of God to man; you must know that. God made a promise to mankind long ago and this is what He said to those that believe in Him. "They shall be my people and I will be their God ...I will not turn away from doing good to them... I will rejoice in doing good to them... with all my heart and with all my soul" (Jeremiah 32:38-41). It boggles the mind to try to imagine what it must mean if the God who made the planets and stars and galaxies and molecules and protons and neutrons and electrons rejoices to do you good with all his heart and with all his soul.

If God is God for you then all his omnipotence and all his omniscience are engaged all the time to do good for you in all the circumstances of your life. This is who you have become, the expression of the goodness of the Lord; the Lord shows how good He is through you. You must study more to know the will of God for your life. When the ignorant man dies and gets to heaven the angels will say, "Welcome into the joy of the Lord," but he wouldn't have brought any glory to God. Your life should be unique such that it brings glory to the name of God. You need to know that God doesn't get any glory from your failures or sufferings. He is glorified every time you take your stand on His Word. Get into the Word today and walk everyday of your life in the glory of your Father. The word of God has the ability to produce in you what it talks about so fix your gaze on it!

"We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed; we are perplexed, but not in despair; Persecuted, but not forsaken; cast down, but not destroyed" (2 Corinthians 4:8-9). Is anything the problem? Don't depend on men but the Word of God. You have all things "Therefore let no man glory in men. For all things are yours; Whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things to come; all are yours" (1 Corinthians 3:21-22). As a born again, you must function with the "Spirit-Mentality." Without the Spirit mentality, you might give up being a Christian because you're going to allow your senses to control you other than the Word of God. "For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is life and peace" (Romans 8:6). In the Old Testament, the high priest was the only one who could go into the holy of holies, the place where the presence of God was.

Today, we can "...fearlessly and confidently and boldly draw near to the throne of grace (the throne of God's unmerited favor to us sinners), that we may receive mercy \[for our failures\] and find grace to help in good time for every need \[appropriate and well-timed help, coming just when we need it\]" (Hebrews 4:16, AMP). Therefore, the Word must excite you even much more than when David was bringing the Ark of the Covenant into Jerusalem. The Word of God is better than the Ark of the Covenant. "Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God..." 1 John 3:1. God is doing something in you with His Word so you must be so soaked with it. Every time the Word of God gets into your spirit, the Holy Spirit also begins to work in you. So you see, there's something incubating inside you, something real and new! Just as Paul the Apostle said in 2 Corinthians 6:2, now is the time to catch it!

The Word and the Holy Spirit are working in you, building a new mentality in you. When Bible tells us to be transformed by the renewing of our mind (Romans 12:2), this is what it means. That's the mentality every child of God ought to have. It's the spirit-mentality. That's the mentality that says, "I can do all things through Christ which strengthens me" when things are tough (Philippians 4:13). It's the mentality that says, "I cannot be defeated, for greater is He that is in me than he that is in the world" (1 John 4:4). You should cultivate a spirit-mentality, not a world-mentality. The world-mentality is the mentality of defeat; it's the mentality of one who's being whipped by every circumstance of life. But you function in the new spirit-mentality from today, and live from one realm of glory to another. You're a child of the light. When darkness sees you it flees. When you step into a place of darkness there is light and anything to do with darkness does not come near you.

Jesus has the power and authority over darkness, and He called and moulded us to be like Him. We don't curse, we bless for we're anointed of the Lord. When you stand anywhere there is confusion and tribulation, by your presence peace prevails. Jesus said He's always with you even unto the end of the world so wherever you go, you carry His presence. When you go out there, forget about yourself and go in the might of God. Remember you're a spirit being and when you recognize this, your body cannot control you. As a child of God you don't go to the house of God for miracles, you live the miraculous life. We are not ordinary for Christ has made us so. When someone comes to the office and asks, "Who's in charge?" You say, "I'm in charge!" Anything you want to be, put it on paper; put it on the ground and dance around it. You don't have to pray to receive from God for you have all things.

"The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places; yea, I have a goodly heritage" (Psalm 16:6). God's Holy Sanctuary are you when you're born again. "Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you?" (1 Corinthians 3:16). Have you received the Holy Spirit since you believed? If you have, then I want you to know that the Creator of the universe lives in you. Someone may not like your face as you say this but it doesn't change the truth that God lives in you. You're holy because God lives in you. Mount Sinai was called "a holy mountain" because God stepped on it and not because the mountain did anything right or wrong. In the same manner, God has chosen you and He's the One who declares you holy, so there's nothing anyone can do about it. God only stepped on Mount Sinai whereas He permanently lives in us. In other words, we're perpetually holy and nothing in this world can change it.

The Amplified translation of 1 Corinthians 3:16 reads thus: "...you...are God's temple (His sanctuary), and that God's Spirit has His permanent dwelling in you \[to be at home in you\]..." You're God's holy tabernacle. This alone should change the mentality. You're not alone and you'll never be! The revelation doesn't stop there; there's more! Remember that God told Abraham He would bless him and make him a blessing, and He did. We're the fruits of that blessing today. "Christ purchased our freedom \[redeeming us\] from the curse (doom) of the Law \[and its condemnation\] by \[Himself\] becoming a curse for us, for it is written \[in the Scriptures\], Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree (is crucified); To the end that through \[their receiving\] Christ Jesus, the blessing \[promised\] to Abraham might come upon the Gentiles, so that we through faith might \[all\] receive \[the realization of\] the promise of the \[Holy\] Spirit" (Galatians 3:13-14, AMP).

We're a blessed people and a blessing to our generation. It doesn't matter where you are, you're a blessing. Anyone can receive anything of God by touching you. This is because you're the home of God, His dwelling place. The person doesn't have to ask you any questions; if he would just touch you by faith, he can receive anything he desires from God. Why? You're God's house, the very temple of the Almighty God. Often, in the Old Testament, the Spirit of the Lord came upon men that were used of God, like Joshua, Samson, David, Samuel and the prophets. He came upon them whenever He wanted them to accomplish some specific tasks. But today in the New Testament, we have something better than they had in the Old Testament. Jesus made it possible for the Holy Spirit to live in us, not just to come upon us, thereby fulfilling God's purpose to be one with our Spirits. "But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit" (1 Corinthians 6:17).

You're blessed to know someone who's born again because if you can just find a Christian who has received this precious, wonderful Holy Spirit, then you can receive anything from God. Oh! I would to God that you would get to know this truth! You're more than what you see with your physical eyes. You've got to see through the Word of God only. Nothing else! You're a blessing to your family, colleagues, nation and the world. The more you get to see yourself this way, the more open you are for God to use you to help others in need! 1 Peter 2:5 says, "Ye also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house, an holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God by Jesus Christ." What a blessing! We did nothing to gain this. "But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God, and not of us" (2 Corinthians 4:7). God cannot say no to what you say and believe upon if they're in line with the Scriptures. He never says "no."

In fact His Word says "For all the promises of God in him are yea, and in him Amen, unto the glory of God by us" (2 Corinthians 1:20). God is good and He's totally committed to His Word. His promises are "Yes and Amen." "God is not a man, that he should lie; neither the son of man, that he should repent: hath he said, and shall he not do it? or hath he spoken, and shall he not make it good?" (Numbers 23:19). You see, God never says "No" and He never lies. The Bible says, "And this is the confidence that we have in him, that, if we ask any thing according to his will, he heareth us" (1 John 5:14). This implies He doesn't hear any prayer that's not based on His Word. So you see, when you don't ask according to God's Word, you're speaking a different language and He wouldn't understand you. But if you ask anything according to His will, as the Bible says, He hears you, and if you know He heard you, then you know you have the petitions you desired of Him (1 John 5:14-15). Amen!

Even if you've messed things up as Moses did when he disobeyed God by striking the rock instead of speaking to it (Numbers 20:11-12), God still remembered his prayer to see the Promised Land. God didn't let him go to the Promised Land at that time, so he died and God buried him (Deuteronomy 34:6). Hundreds of years later, Moses and Elijah appeared with Jesus on the Mount of Transfiguration (Mark 9:4); God had answered his prayer to see the Promised Land of Israel! God doesn't hear your prayers because of the 'seriousness' or 'genuineness' of your plea. He doesn't hear you because of the multiplicity of your words or the excellence of your oration. Your confidence should be in the fact that you made your request based on His Word.

God always wants to answer your prayers; therefore pray with faith in His Word. Study His Word to know what He says concerning you. As a child of God, you are superior to every element in this world - including the devil and his cohorts! There's nothing stopping you. The final part has even more for us - [let's keep studying](https://www.rhemafromgod.com/the-superior-man-in-christ-part-3.html "The Superior Man in Christ part 3").
