---
title: "The Believer's Authority - Part 3"
date: '2014-07-11'
lastmod: '2014-07-14'
tags: ['authority']
draft: false
summary: 'The Apostle declares to the saints in Christ: "\[That you may really come\] to know \[practically, through experience for yourselves\] the love of Christ, which far surpasses mere knowledge \[without experience\]...'
authors: ['default']
---

The Apostle declares to the saints in Christ: "\[That you may really come\] to know \[practically, through experience for yourselves\] the love of Christ, which far surpasses mere knowledge \[without experience\]; that you may be filled \[through all your being\] unto all the fullness of God \[may have the richest measure of the divine Presence, and become a body wholly filled and flooded with God Himself\]!" (Ephesians 3:19, AMP). If God lives in us, why does he wish for the fullness of God? This is the awakening of the saint to his true self. We have so much in us, but until we have that revelation knowledge from God we are going to end up living the beggarly life, even though we have the all-conquering life of God in us.

Here's Paul's previous statement: "Surely you have heard that God in his grace has given me this work to do for your good. God revealed his secret plan and made it known to me (...and if you will read what I have written, you can learn about my understanding of the secret of Christ.) In past times human beings were not told this secret, but God has revealed it now by the Spirit to his holy apostles and prophets" (Ephesians 3:2-5, GNB). This means that there are secrets in the Kingdom of God that you get to know by revelation. As you prayerfully study and meditate on the Word of God, the Spirit of the Lord is going to minister to you in a special way with spiritual realities. And He is doing same even as you go through this message.

Oh, thank God for His grace. As the Anointed Redeemer of Israel, Christ Jesus has nothing distinct from His Church, but all that He has He holds for her. Adam's righteousness was ours so long as he maintained it, and his sin was ours the moment that he committed it; and in the same manner, all that the Second Adam is or does, is ours as well as His, seeing that He is our representative. Do you know the good news? Read this: "God has put all things under the authority of Christ and has made him head over all things for the benefit of the church" (Ephesians 1:22, NLT). God has put all things under Christ for my benefit? The devil has no power over me! Trials may come, but they're for our advantage because we grow by overcoming them.

"My brethren, count it all joy when ye fall into divers temptations; Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. But let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothings" (James 1:2-4). That we should be happy to face trials? But why? This is the Message Bible's translation of the same verse: "Consider it a sheer gift, friends, when tests and challenges come at you from all sides. You know that under pressure, your faith-life is forced into the open and shows its true colours. So don't try to get out of anything prematurely. Let it do its work so you become mature and well-developed, not deficient in any way." Trials develop us, making us grow to maturity. But you know, it's the will of God that we grow as believers, and one of the ways is through trials.

God allows the devil to bring many challenges our way, but He knows we can deal with them. Sometimes people criticise God, calling Him all sorts of names. But the fact is that God loves us. Trials come our way so that by overcoming them we may be perfect, wanting nothing. The more challenges you overcome, the stronger you become. It's because God loves us that He allows the devil to come around at times. The apostle Paul said, "...we glory in tribulations..." (Romans 5:3). He also said, "...there was given me a thorn in my flesh, a messenger of Satan, to torment me. Three times I pleaded with the Lord to take it away from me. But he said to me, "My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness." Therefore I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses, so that Christ's power may rest on me" (2 Corinthians 12:7-9).

God is saying to you today, "My grace is sufficient for you..." In our trials, He doesn't expect us to cry. He wants us rejoicing! Paul said, "We glory in tribulations," and the subsequent, "I will boast all the more gladly about my weakness, so that Christ's power may rest on me." Hallelujah! That's what we're supposed to do when we face trials. Many give up, but refuse to be counted as one. Our enemy the devil prowls around like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour (1 Peter 5:8). Satan is constantly on the lookout for his prey, but this is good news: "...the eyes of the LORD run to and fro throughout the whole earth, to shew himself strong in the behalf of them whose heart is perfect toward him. Herein thou hast done foolishly: therefore from henceforth thou shalt have wars" (2 Chronicles 16:9).

The Message Bible translation: "GOD is always on the alert, constantly on the lookout for people who are totally committed to him. You were foolish to go for human help when you could have had God's help. Now you're in trouble - one round of war after another." As the devil goes out to look for his prey, God is also on the alert, looking out for people who are committed to him, so He would deliver them from the snare of the fowler and the noisome pestilence (Psalm 91:3). In Christendom, your faith really matters to God, that's why He's dealt with every one of us the measure of faith (Romans 12:3). Every Christian has enough faith to turn hopeless situation around for the best (Matthew 17:20). We are also saved by faith in Jesus Christ (Romans 10:9). No wonder it's impossible to please God without faith (Hebrews 11:6). The act of faith is what distinguished our ancestors, set them above the crowd (Hebrews 11:2). I would personally recommend that you read the whole of Hebrews chapter 11, where Paul talks about the men and women of Faith.

In the latter part Paul said, "And what shall I more say? for the time would fail me to tell of Gedeon, and of Barak, and of Samson, and of Jephthae; of David also, and Samuel, and of the prophets: "Who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, Quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens. Women received their dead raised to life again: and others were tortured, not accepting deliverance; that they might obtain a better resurrection: And others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover of bonds and imprisonment: They were stoned, they were sawn asunder, were tempted, were slain with the sword: "They wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins; being destitute, afflicted, tormented; (Of whom the world was not worthy:) they wandered in deserts, and in mountains, and in dens and caves of the earth" (Hebrews 11:32-38).

We are a people of faith. It's with faith that you are going to be able to withstand every affliction of the enemy. "If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small" (Proverbs 24:10). The Hebrew word for faint as the scripture renders is raphah which when translated, means to sink, relax, sink down, let drop, or be disheartened. Strength, as this verse renders, is your faith. If you fail in the day of trial then your faith is small. How strong is your faith? We should not be apt to faint, to droop and be discouraged, to desist from our work, and to despair of relief. This is where other people's spirit sink, and then their hands hang down and their knees grow feeble, and they become unfit for anything. When anything threatens them, they faint immediately and are ready to give up all for gone; and by this means they render themselves unfit to grapple with their trouble and unable to help themselves. I know you are bigger than that, because you are a child of God. Put your faith to work, no matter the difficulties.

Take this: "Keep a cool head. Stay alert. The Devil is poised to pounce, and would like nothing better than to catch you napping. Keep your guard up. You're not the only ones plunged into these hard times. It's the same with Christians all over the world. So keep a firm grip on the faith. The suffering won't last forever. It won't be long before this generous God who has great plans for us in Christ - eternal and glorious plans they are! - will have you put together and on your feet for good. He gets the last word; yes, he does" (1 Peter 5:8-10, MSG). Don't let circumstances dictate to you; rather, speak to them to conform to your words. They will, so command them! We are blessed with all spiritual blessings (Ephesians 1:3). All the goodness of the past, the present, and the future, Christ bestows upon His people.

In the mysterious ages of the past the Lord Jesus was His Father's first elect, and in His election He gave us an interest, for we were chosen in Him from before the foundation of the world (Ephesians 1:4). He had from all eternity the prerogatives of Sonship, as His Father's only-begotten and well-beloved Son, and He has, in the riches of His grace, by adoption and regeneration, elevated us to sonship also, so that to us He has given "power to become the sons of God" (John 1:12). The eternal covenant, based upon suretiship and confirmed by oath, is ours, for our strong consolation and security. In the everlasting settlements of predestinating wisdom and omnipotent decree, the eye of the Lord Jesus was ever fixed on us; and we may rest assured that in the whole roll of destiny there is not a line which militates against the interests of His redeemed.

The great betrothal of the Prince of Glory is ours, for it is to us that He is affianced, as the sacred nuptials shall ere long declare to an assembled universe. The marvellous incarnation of the God of heaven, with all the amazing condescension and humiliation which attended it, is ours. The bloody sweat, the scourge, the cross, are ours for ever. Whatever blissful consequences flow from perfect obedience, finished atonement, resurrection, ascension, or intercession, all are ours by His own gift. Upon His breastplate He is now bearing our names; and in His authoritative pleadings at the throne He remembers our persons and pleads our cause. His dominion over principalities and powers, and His absolute majesty in heaven, He employs for the benefit of them who trust in Him.

His high estate is as much at our service as was His condition of abasement. He who gave Himself for us in the depths of woe and death, doth not withdraw the grant now that He is enthroned in the highest heavens. "It pleased the Father that in Him should all fullness dwell" (Colossians 1:19). God has given to Him all power and all authority. As the Son of man, He is now head over all things to His church, and He reigns over heaven, and earth, and hell, with the keys of life and death at His girdle (Revelation 1:18). He has taken and carried by storm the hearts of His people, and has slain their enemies who held them in cruel bondage. In the Red Sea of His own blood, our Redeemer has drowned the Pharaoh of our sins. He has delivered us from the iron yoke and heavy curse of the law. We are His portion, whom He has taken out of the hand of the Amorite with His sword and with His bow.

"But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God, and not of us" (2 Corinthians 4:7). We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed; we are perplexed, but not in despair; Persecuted, but not forsaken; cast down, but not destroyed (2 Corinthians 4:7-9). New covenant servants (followers of Jesus Christ) are "earthen vessels" (ordinary clay pots). Yet, in the container of their redeemed humanity dwells "this treasure" (the Son of God Himself). This arrangement calls for the treasure (Jesus), not the vessels (you and me) to be the object of all trust and the recipient of all glory. Appropriately, the Lord has also arranged a process that magnifies the treasure. This process involves the everyday pressures of life, which come from all sides. Clay pots cannot withstand much pressure, but the treasure within us (Christ) is able to keep us from being smashed.

"Be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus" (2 Timothy 2:1). The process that draws attention to the treasure also involves many perplexities. We face difficult decisions and impossible issues, but our Wonderful Counsellor protects us from hopelessness: "In whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge" (Colossians 2:3). Persecutions are included in the process. People accuse us, misunderstand us, or lie about us. Still, we know we are not abandoned by our Lord who lives within us: "...for he hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee" (Hebrews 13:5). Even catastrophes are a part of the process that magnifies the treasure who indwells us. Circumstantial upheavals and overwhelming heartaches occur, but the Lord stabilizes our souls, so we don't tip over under the weight of circumstances. "They confronted me in the day of my calamity, but the LORD was my support" (Psalm 18:18, ESV).

Thus, life comes at us like an overpowering military tank, ready to flatten us. There is no natural hope, because clay pots can't handle tanks. Yet, as the dust clears, the flower pot of our lives can remain intact (if we are trusting in the able and faithful one who lives in our hearts). There is no attacking tank that can overcome the Lord Jesus Christ. "He who is in you is greater than he who is in the world" (1 John 4:4). Jesus is our indwelling treasure. When pressures, perplexities, persecutions, or catastrophes come our way, He's right there. As a Christian, you are vested with the authority of God irrespective of how big or small you look. A few months back, there were some huge controversies about a song that was released by a Ghanaian missionary, revivalist and psalmist, Rev Prince Nyarko.

I just wanted to know the lyrics of the song that people criticised so much. The song is titled, "I Rule the World!" You can [watch it on YouTube.](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fFXLtROkGRI) Even when I'd not listened to it I was like, "Dear Lord Jesus. This song is going to be so inspiring and full of revelation." The title alone should draw your attention to something. It makes your spirit yearn to just know what it's all about. The song talks about Christians knowing who they are and where they stand. According to the song, anything made by God overcomes the world and words in the song such as "I am created to rule the world, anything made of God is the light of the world therefore it is made to shine and rule the world," attests to it. What a song! How could this song be controversial, raising a lot of questions among the public?

Anybody who talks against this song is either not a Christian or a non-student of the Bible. There's something we carry on the inside of us that many of us do not really meditate upon. How could you be making critics of such song when you see this in your Bible: "For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world: and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. Who is he that overcometh the world, but he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God?" (1 John 5:4-5). The Message Bible puts it like this: "Every God-begotten person conquers the world's ways. The conquering power that brings the world to its knees is our faith. The person who wins out over the world's ways is simply the one who believes Jesus is the Son of God."

The first question you're going to ask yourself is, "I'm I born of God?" Secondly, "Do I believe in Jesus, the Son of God?" [Let's get going](https://rhemafromgod.com/the-believers-authority-part-4 "The Believer's Authority part 4") as we study more on this subject.
