---
title: 'The Rhema of God - Part 3'
date: '2013-05-09'
lastmod: '2013-05-13'
tags: ['authority', 'power']
draft: false
summary: "Sometimes we think meditation means to cogitate; it’s not. As a believer, don’t forget that we have the Almighty God dwelling in us. We've never majored on this fact as we ought to."
authors: ['default']
---

Sometimes we think meditation means to cogitate; it's not. As a believer, don't forget that we have the Almighty God dwelling in us. We've never majored on this fact as we ought to. Therefore, we've never been able to walk in dominion as we ought. If your mind is not renewed with the Word of God, it will side in with your flesh and dominate your spirit. This is what makes canal Christians. But if you get your mind renewed, your spirit, through your mind, will dominate your body. What you are doing in renewing your mind is training your mind to think in line with God's Word. We do think like "I am saved. I am waiting for Jesus to return for me." That's alright, but is that all there is? You see, your spirit has become a new man, but it is the Word of God which will save your soul, or restore it. How to deal with the devil is not just to have a Bible in your hand and throw it at him when he shows up.

Something has to be in you - "And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God" (Ephesians 6:17). In Ephesians chapter 6, Paul shows us how to prepare as true soldiers in Christ. In verse 17 he tells us to have the helmet which is our salvation, and then the sword of the Spirit which is the Word of God. "Word" in the above scripture is the Greek word "rhema." Do you see how important the confession of scripture is? The Word is the sword of the Spirit, but it must not be lying in you idle. It must be a living word, a word that is alive within you because of a living relationship with the risen Christ. The words on the pages of scripture becomes a spiritual sword when you speak it forth. The reason why many live defeated lives is because everything else is coming out of their mouths except the Word of God. Every negative thing they see, every false thing they can quote, every secular thing they have memorized, but they have not hid the Word of God in their heart.

They know that "Death and life are in the power of the tongue: and they that love it shall eat the fruit thereof" (Proverbs 18:21) - yet, they have not majored on the speaking aspect of the Word of God. You must begin to speak forth the scripture. The Word of God is to be a weapon in your life. The only way to see the Word in operation is to keep proclaiming it. We see in John 1:4, "In him was life; and the life was the light of men." In Jesus was this kind of life, and this same Jesus lives in you. Then you can boldly proclaim: "[I've got the life of God in me](https://www.rhemafromgod.com/zoe-the-god-kind-of-life-part-1 "Zoe - The God Kind of Life Part 1"). The nature of God is in me. I am the light of the world." Maybe you used to be bad and cause trouble, so people would often like to remind you of the past - but you tell them "The fellow who was with you in those days is dead. The real man is living on the inside of me now; I've been born again and I'm a new creature!" Hallelujah!

The Bible tells us of what we have, so most at times when it comes to spiritual things people think, "If you've got it, you've got it." No, no, no, that's the reason God gave us His Word - so we would take time to find out what we have and then walk in the light of it, speaking to ourselves. You can know you are saved and say, "Well, I'm a Christian. Thank God I'm saved." And you'll go to heaven when you die. But you can't enjoy the reality of it in this life because you don't know who you are and how things should go for you. We have never majored on so many things as we should. We have been too busy fighting over minor things. There are great Bible truths that will release us, make us masters, and enable us to dominate and reign in life. Most of these things have been left untouched. Many are fighting with the devil because they don't know they're supposed to rule over him. The truth of the matter is that Satan has been defeated; he isn't a factor. He's not going to be; he has been defeated!

Take a look at Jesus - when He walked the earth, He won every battle with the enemy. Then, after He had satisfied the claims of justice on the cross, He met the devil in his own throne room, stripped him of his authority and dominion, and rose from the dead. In Revelation 1:18 Jesus said, "I am he that liveth, and was dead; and, behold, I am alive for evermore, Amen; and have the keys of hell and of death." Where did He get them? He got them from Satan; He took the dominion and authority that had been given Satan in the Garden of Eden by Adam. The good news is that, every man and woman who accepts Jesus Christ is identified with Him. He did it for you. He did it for me. He did it as our Substitute. Everything He did is credited into our account when we accept Him as our Lord and Saviour. We don't live under the dominion of Satan any longer.

Satan can holler as much as he wants to, but you can withstand him with the faith of Jesus Christ - don't be the least afraid of him. There's so much in Christ brethren; let's not be so much concerned about theology that we miss the Bible. Even though Abraham was far advanced in age and without a child, God said He would make him the father of many nations, and his seed as the dust of the earth (Genesis 17:4; 13:16). To make this clear to Abraham, God took him outside and said to him, "Look up into the sky and count the stars if you can. That's how many descendants you will have!" And Abraham believed the Lord, and the Lord counted him as righteous because of his faith (Genesis 15:5-6). God wanted to bless Abraham, but he wanted his imagination to correspond with His Word. Thankfully, he caught God's idea as he looked into the starts. God changed his name from "Abram" to "Abraham" which means "Father of many."

God couldn't call him Abraham until he believed Him. God also changed the name of his wife from "Sarai" meaning "contentious" to "Sarah" meaning "Queen of Princes" or "Mother of Princes." God told Abraham his future, framed his aion. It was up to Abraham now, having been given the frame, to walk in the light of it, and build the life that he should build, and he did. I chipped in with this story to show you how important it is to study the Word of God and know it for ourselves. Just as God said those wonderful things to Abraham, His Word says a lot to us. Having given us His Word about how our lives ought to be, it's up to us to also walk in the light of it. God wouldn't force us to do something; all is up to us. There's so much joy and happiness that accompanies the doing of the Word of God. Call yourself what God calls you and reject wrong names from men.

The Word of God shows you what your aion should be like - prosperous, sickness free, wise, graceful, and so on. Refuse to be lazy about getting exactly the kind of life you should have! Speak forth "rhema" into your world today and always. "...The worlds were framed by the 'rhema' of God..." Start framing yours right now! Say to yourself, "I'll never be broke in my life; I live in superabundance; eternal life is at work in me; I'm a success anywhere, any day, any time!" Thank God for the life of [Pastor Chris](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chris_Oyakhilome) and [Pastor Hagin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kenneth_E._Hagin) for throwing more light on this subject matter. There’s no situation the believer cannot deal with when he's conscious of his rights and privileges in Christ. Keep declaring what the Word of God says concerning your situation. No matter how long it takes, the wall that seems so great before you shall fall down flat. The Word of God is our mirror; we see exactly what we look like, when we look into it.

Stop looking somewhere - look at what the Word tells about you. Don't just accept anything someone tells you. If they're not in line with the Word of God, then it's not so! When they say you have cancer, and the Word of God says you're strong, then you don't have cancer. That's faith! What do you want? What do you want your world to be like? How do you want your home to be? What do you want in academics? Right now, begin to paint the picture in your mind and brood over it; let it fill your mind, and allow the Holy Spirit aid you, by vitalizing your imagination with declarations from God's Word concerning you. Creating the right picture is very important. Look at the woman with the issue of blood (haemorrhage). No doctor could cure her, in spite of the money she had spent. But when she heard of Jesus, she said, "If I could only touch the hem of His garment, I would be made whole." She did and was made whole (Mark 5:25-34).

She kept painting this picture of herself made whole in her mind and the desire to be healed, which had been birthed in her continued to grow. With her imagination she created a new picture of herself in her mind. The crowd was pressing on Jesus, very likely, many sick people, but it's only the record of this woman's healing we have in the Bible. Why? Because they did not have the same desire she had; she had defined her desire. What's your desire? You can paint it with the Word of God. Don't get the picture and relax, speak it. The Word works! I love it when people call Christianity "The Great Confession." Indeed, Christianity is for talkers! In Jesus' days many did not believe Him to be the Christ, the son of God. Much had been said about Him, but the people just didn't believe Him. Jesus kept declaring who He was wherever He went. No matter the threats He received from the people to keep quiet, the more He spoke.

What stuffs are people saying about you? Do you neglect God's Word and accept what they tell you? If Jesus didn't succumb to the negative things they said about Him, then I'm not doing it! This should be your goal in life. Don't give in to people just like that. Keep talking your future, and soon, just like at the creation, you would speak it into being. When God created the world it was a result of His desire and imaginative power at work and when He finished, He called it good. What good thing do you want? Have a specific desire; have a clear picture of what you want in your mind. Your desire will create a strong driving force, which will cause you to speak out and achieve your desired goals. Every desire is possible; there is no impossible desire, no impossible dream gets to this world. Have you been declaring your faith and you see nothing happen? We walk by faith and not by sight (2 Corinthians 5:7).

If the clouds be full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth (Ecclesiastes 11:3). As you keep declaring, your confessions can be likened to the formation of clouds that gives rain. Clouds are being formed as you speak for the word, and you can watch them come to pass like the rain. You develop your spirit as you keep studying the Word and declare your faith. I read another story from Rev Kenneth E. Hagin where he stated that as a boy, he'd read Daniel 1:3-20 to the Lord and make his confession on it.In the Bible, God blessed Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego with extraordinary wisdom, such that in all matters of wisdom and understanding, king Nebuchadnezzar inquired of them, and he found them ten times better than all the magicians and astrologers that were in all his realm. In this case, Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego were just children. Please find time to read the story. As a young boy, Pastor Hagin also declared: "I have the nature of God, the life of God, and the wisdom of God in me."

If somebody asked him, he'd say exactly that to them. He also declared: "Daniel had favour with the prince of the eunuchs (he would call him the dean of the college). God, give me favour with every teacher; thank you for it. It is mine. Now impart to me, because I've got the life of God and the nature of God in me, more wisdom than all the rest of the class. Let me be ten times better off than the rest of the class." For his declarations, he stood at the head of the class. He was the only one who made a "straight-A" report card. He could read a chapter of a history book (they tested him to see), put the book down, and get up and recite the chapter word for word. He said something profound: "I didn't do that because I had developed my memory. I didn't know a thing in the world about memorization. I did that because I looked to my spirit. We never have developed our human spirits. We never have walked in the light of what we have."

No wonder he said it in one of his books that he could quote some chapters in the New Testament, word for word, without looking into the Bible. Take note of his profound statement, "we never have developed our human spirits." I know there are so many books out there which seeks to improve our memory. On the front cover of my notepad is written, "The Sea is the vastest on the earth, the sky is vaster than the sea, a human mind is the most among the three." A brother in Christ got my attention to that statement. I said, "No. The human spirit is the vastest among all!" You see, we can do so much in this world, only if we'd develop our human spirits. Isn't it surprising that a believer would buy a book to improve his mind and neglect his spirit? Yes. If we're reading books to improve our memory and not the Bible that will improve our spirits, which is the most important, then we have a serious problem.

I love the Message Bible's translation of Romans 8:14: "God's Spirit beckons. There are things to do and places to go!" Just consider a statement that was made concerning Jesus, "And there are also many other things which Jesus did, the which, if they should be written every one, I suppose that even the world itself could not contain the books that should be written. Amen" (John 21:25). If the world would be too small for the publication of Jesus’ works, then consider this from Jesus Himself: "Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do; because I go unto my Father" (John 14:12). Indeed, there are things to do and places to go! There's so much we can do as children of God; ponder over this! Rev Hagin does say that they have only touched an edge of the believer's authority in Christ.

I wonder, "These people have done so much and they said they've only gotten to the edge of the believer's authority in Christ. What about getting into its full measure?" There's so much we can do. I remember I used to worry so much about how I was talking to people and interceding for them. They were just not turning out to be the way I wanted. I would speak to them today and they forgot so soon. God revealed an amazing thing to me one day. I saw a whole crowd of believers and the Spirit of God was working among them in a greater dispensation; the atmosphere was so charged, and the gifts of the Spirit were in full operation. My heart rejoiced! There's so much to do; just keep studying and talking the Word. Someone might say, "What if I said nothing; will I reap something?" Yes! Just as something grows on a piece of land that has nothing cultivated, something will grow in your life when you don't cultivate anything with your mouth.

If you don't use your tongue at all, don't think nothing will happen, something will still result from that. If the farmer doesn't sow something in the farm, it would grow something by itself, something unwanted - weeds. You can use your tongue to programme yourself for a successful, tremendous life or for a life full of grief and regrets. We know there are many promises from God to us, His children. But have we so carefully considered the meaning of the word "promise?" The Webster's dictionary defines "promise" as "a legally binding declaration that gives the person to whom it is made a right to expect or claim the performance or forbearance of a specified act." We have the right to claim what's been made available to us in Christ Jesus. The reason why many are not experiencing the promises is because they haven't learnt to claim, or rather take possession of them.

Don't be afraid of claiming what belongs to you (Hebrews 4:16). You can also take a lot at a message in which I share more about [the power of words](https://www.rhemafromgod.com/the-power-of-words-part-1) - you will be blessed. Read it thoroughly, and you'll be glad you did. Finally, brethren in Christ, dominate everywhere you go; live the best of life with faith-filled words.

Keep talking the Word! 🗣️

God bless you!
