---
title: 'These Signs Shall Follow Those Who Believe'
date: '2011-09-04'
lastmod: '2011-09-10'
tags: ['authority']
draft: false
summary: 'When Jesus accomplished the greatest task - after He had died for the world, He gave believers the mandate to go into the entire world to preach the Gospel to every creature.'
authors: ['default']
---

When Jesus accomplished the greatest task - after He had died for the world, He gave believers the mandate to go into the entire world to preach the Gospel to every creature. "And he said unto them, go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned. And these signs shall follow them that believe; in my name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; they shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover. So then after the Lord had spoken unto them, he was received up into heaven, and sat on the right hand of God. And they went forth, and preached every where, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word with signs following. Amen" (Mark 16:15-20). This is Mark's version of the great commission that Jesus gave which is recorded in Matthew 28:18-20.

Notice He didn't just send them but He gave them power! Jesus told His disciples, "But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you: and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth" (Acts 1:8). It's the Holy Ghost that gives believers the boldness to proclaim the Gospel. The Holy Ghost is very essential as far as preaching the Gospel with accompanying signs and wonders is concerned. When God speaks, it's the Holy Ghost that goes into action to perform. Some excuse themselves by saying they cannot read and understand the Bible so how possible is it to even reach out to others. Hear me, the Holy Ghost is the Master-Teacher; He is the one that gives understanding to the reader. A scholar may read the Bible several times without ever receiving the revelation knowledge of the Word.

Someone who's uneducated can teach the Word of God by the help of the Holy Spirit. "The members of the council were amazed when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, for they could see that they were ordinary men with no special training in the Scriptures. They also recognized them as men who had been with Jesus (Acts 4:13, NLT). Jesus told His disciples to go into the world, probably not at the time referred to in Mark 16:14, but later to preach the Gospel. The Lord appeared many times during the forty days and these words may have been spoken at the great meeting in Galilee (Mark 16:7). "Go ye into all the world," said Jesus. Jesus is the world's Savior; He died for all; the Gospel must be preached to all. In the first commission they were sent only to Jews (Matthew 10:6). They were told to preach the Gospel, the Good News of salvation through Christ; the way of life, to every creature, to every mortal.

None are denied the Savior if they will have him. He that believeth the gospel message believes in Christ as his Savior, and is baptized will be saved. These are the condition of pardon; faith in Christ and obedience to His command. If any one has not faith enough in Christ to obey him, he has not faith enough to be saved. He that believeth not remains in a state of unbelief and such have no promise (John 3:18). Jesus goes on to say that signs shall follow them that believe. It is generally held that this is a promise limited to the apostolic age and to a few of the disciples of that age. Perhaps the plural "them" does not have for its antecedent the singular "he" in Mark 16:16, but the plural "them" in Mark 16:14. If it does not, why is the number changed in Mark 16:15, 16? The grammatical construction requires us to look to Mark 16:14 for the antecedent of "them" in Mark 16:17.

In Mark 16:14, the apostles are "upbraided for their unbelief because they believed not them who had seen Jesus after He had arisen." They are commended to go and tell the glad story, and assured that miraculous credentials shall be given to those of "them who believe" and tell the wonderful tidings. Jesus said in my name shall they cast out demons etc. (Mark 16:14-16; Acts 2:4, 5:16, 8:7, 16:18, 28:3). Jesus then goes on to say that "They shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover." Mark 16:18. On the Island called Melita, a viper came out and fastened itself on Paul's hand but Bible says "And he shook off the beast into the fire, and felt no harm." Acts 28:5. "Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature: old things are passed away; behold, all things are become new.

And all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, and hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation; to wit, that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them; and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us: we pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God. For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin; that we might be made the righteousness of God in him." 2 Corinthians 5:17-21. From this scripture, we have been made ambassadors for Christ to the world. Our mandate is to preach the Gospel to every creature. This is the great commission that Jesus gave which is recorded in Matthew 28:18-20 and as we begin to fulfill the commission that God has given us then signs will follow (Mark 16:17-20). Interestingly, these signs were not to follow the apostle, prophet and evangelist only. They were to follow THEM THAT BELIEVED.

Notice in verse 20 of Mark chapter 16 that the signs followed AFTER they began to preach everywhere. Don't wait for the signs and then preach. Preach and the signs will follow. God ALWAYS confirms His Word with signs following. It's also sad that some believers want to see themselves performing miracles before they go out to preach the Gospel. From this scripture we find out that signs followed the believers as they preached the Gospel so go out to preach the Gospel and you'll be amazed at what will take place. There are people called theologians. Most of these people teach the Word as they think through it with their limited minds. No one can read and understand the Bible without the help of the Holy Spirit. Bible says "All scripture is given by inspiration of God..." 2 Timothy 3:16. The Holy Spirit is the author of the Word of God. This means that the Word is a Spirit and how do we of the flesh understand it without the help of the Spirit of God?

I don't know why some Christians believe in soul winning but reject the working of miracles. Miracles are such that they are above human imaginations, they are wonders and our limited minds are not to be allowed to judge from its perspective. The Bible makes it clear that "This is so because the corrupt nature has a hostile attitude toward God. It refuses to place itself under the authority of God's standards because it can't." Romans 8:7, God's Word Translation. I love this quote from 2 Corinthians 10:3-5: "For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh: (For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strong holds;) casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ."

Satan has always attempted to cast doubt upon the Word of God (Genesis 3:1-5). He has continued to use this method to keep the supernatural power of God from operating through the church. This has been ammunition in the hands of those who oppose the supernatural in the church today. You'll be surprised that there are Men of God who say they believe in the Bible and yet oppose to the evidence of signs. What should be noted is that the Church is endued with so much power as far as the Holy Ghost indwells them. It's so sad that you see believers jumping from one local assembly to the other just to see the pastor to pray for them. Due to this, they end up at wrong places where lies be told them. This is so sad. Even if some people do not accept the fact that it is normal for miracles, signs and wonders to follow believers who preach the Gospel, other passages of scripture display these same signs being manifested and therefore proves that God's people can have them.

The rejection of this utterance from the Lord Jesus Christ amounts to disobedience to the Word of God. Period! These signs are being done in this day and age amongst believers and should be proof enough that they are for the church today. Jesus didn't say these signs followed them that believed neither did He say someday these signs shall follow them that believe. He said these signs shall follow them that believe. In other Words, it's absolutely normal for the signs to follow anyone who preaches the Gospel. Jesus confirms this again when He said, "And as ye go, preach, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand. Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out devils: freely ye have received, freely give (Matthew 10:7-8). When some hear that a dead body's been brought back to life, they doubt but that's what Jesus said we (believers) will do.

"Then he (Jesus) called his twelve disciples together, and gave them power and authority over all devils, and to cure diseases. And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick. And he said unto them, Take nothing for your journey, neither staves, nor scrip, neither bread, neither money; neither have two coats apiece. And whatsoever house ye enter into, there abide, and thence depart. And whosoever will not receive you, when ye go out of that city, shake off the very dust from your feet for a testimony against them. And they departed, and went through the towns, preaching the gospel, and healing every where (Luke 9:1-6). Hallelujah! Let's look at some of the incidences that took place as the disciples preached the Good News. "Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and preached Christ unto them. And the people with one accord gave heed unto those things which Philip spake, hearing and seeing the miracles which he did.

For unclean spirits, crying with loud voice, came out of many that were possessed with them: and many taken with palsies, and that were lame, were healed. And there was great joy in that city" (Acts 8:5-8). "And there they preached the gospel. And there sat a certain man at Lystra, impotent in his feet, being a cripple from his mother's womb, who never had walked: The same heard Paul speak: who stedfastly beholding him, and perceiving that he had faith to be healed, Said with a loud voice, Stand upright on thy feet. And he leaped and walked (Acts 14:7-10). The Apostle Paul testified: "Through mighty signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God; so that from Jerusalem, and round about unto Illyricum, I have fully preached the gospel of Christ" (Romans 15:19). There are five signs specifically mentioned in Mark 16:17-18 that should follow every believer. These are casting out demons, speaking in tongues, taking up serpents, protection from poison, and healing of the sick.

If someone claims to be a believer and yet disbelieves in any one of these signs, BEWARE of such a person. These signs are real and most believers are experiencing them. Why not devote your time to preach the Gospel? The Gospel is the only hope for the world today. It brings grace and liberty to its hearers. This statement from the Apostle Paul motivates me so much: "However, I consider my life worth nothing to me, if only I may finish the race and complete the task the Lord Jesus has given me - the task of testifying to the gospel of God's grace" (Acts 20:24). Listen, in the world, there are several games. "Everyone who competes in the games goes into strict training. They do it to get a crown that will not last; but we do it to get a crown that will last forever" (1 Corinthians 9:25). Our labour in preaching the Gospel to win souls for the Lord is not in vain!

There's a reward for us if only we faint not. I encourage you to preach the Gospel to the people both near and far today. This is because the Gospel is the only hope for them. The Lord needs your today; we are to make the free Gospel of Jesus Christ to the nations of the earth. God is counting on you, and he's willing to wrought great and mighty works through you.

God bless you!
