---
title: 'We Are Kings and Priests - Part 3'
date: '2012-04-02'
lastmod: '2012-04-010'
tags: ['authority', 'power', 'new-creation-realities']
draft: false
summary: 'There was also another instance where a leper asked Jesus to heal him if it was His will: "And, behold, there came a leper and worshipped him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. And Jesus put forth his hand, and touched him, saying, I will; be thou clean.'
authors: ['default']
---

There was also another instance where a leper asked Jesus to heal him if it was His will: "And, behold, there came a leper and worshipped him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. And Jesus put forth his hand, and touched him, saying, I will; be thou clean. And immediately his leprosy was cleansed" (Matthew 8:2-3). Jesus presented the character and will of God for mankind. His ministry was that of compassion, love, mercy, kindness etc - the attributes of God. Let's also take a look at where Jesus healed the infirm, bent woman as He was teaching on the sabbath day in the synagogue: "And, behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and was bowed together, and could in no wise lift up herself. And when Jesus saw her, he called her to him, and said unto her, Woman, thou art loosed from thine infirmity. And he laid his hands on her: and immediately she was made straight, and glorified God" (Luke 13:11-13).

In fact the ruler of the synagogue was unhappy because Jesus had healed on the sabbath day. The ruler charged the people that they had six days to work in which they should come and be healed and not on the sabbath day. But Jesus replied him saying, "Thou hypocrite, doth not each one of you on the sabbath loose his ox or his ass from the stall, and lead him away to watering? And ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound, lo, these eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the sabbath day? And when he had said these things, all his adversaries were ashamed: and all the people rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him" (Luke 13:15-17). Jesus was so concerned about men that He gave them what they needed no matter the circumstance. God pays so much attention to you; He's interested in your wellbeing and that's exactly what Jesus demonstrated.

Even if some believers believe that God put sickness on them to teach them a lesson, why do they find help from people to be cured? Are they not disobeying God by taking away what He put on them to teach them a lesson? Our Christian life is not supposed to be struggling and trying to get God to do something for you. God's finished with His work but it's up to you to jump into what He's made available to you. When you come to Jesus, He sets you at liberty to serve God as you should. Study more of God's Word to know His will for your life so that you don't get confused - the Word is our compass with which we navigate our way in life. When you do, you'll find out God is not mysterious as some think because He's shown us from His Word what He's done, what He's doing and what He'll do.

God gives you the power to choose. When you take Joshua for instance, he changed the weather condition in his time to suite his condition. He was at war, but then he didn't want darkness to fall so that they could defeat their enemies. Bible give the account of the story: "Then Joshua spoke to the Lord on the day when the Lord gave the Amorites over to the Israelites, and he said in the sight of Israel, Sun, be silent and stand still at Gibeon, and you, moon, in the Valley of Ajalon! And the sun stood still, and the moon stayed, until the nation took vengeance upon their enemies. Is not this written in the Book of Jasher? So the sun stood still in the mist of the heavens and did not hasten to go down for about a whole day" (Joshua 10:12-13 AMP). So Joshua chose what would help them conquer their enemies and he got it. Just imagine talking to the sun and the moon. It's not surprising because Jesus said nothing shall be impossible unto you.

There're those who say, "We are just in this world, subject to circumstances; anything can happen; nobody knows tomorrow?" But you've been given the Word to teach you what you should know about your relationship with God. You see, the unconverted man may die of a disease like cancer just because he has been told by the doctor that he has cancer and has only a few months to live. For fear, he starts to set his house in order because he believes he has cancer and has no hope. He thinks he's finished for life. He doesn't have the right to choose, so he accepts whatever is handed to him. He could lose his life all because he doesn't have the right to choose.

But hear me, for the Christian, however, it's a different story altogether. You can decide you're not dying through cancer, HIV, malaria, or asthma. You don't have to accept the verdict of the doctor as the final say in your life. Let's God's Word have the final say in everything that concerns you. When the doctor gives you a negative report, just look into his face and tell him, "I'm not dying of HIV, cancer, asthma or whatever the sickness, in the Name of Jesus!" Your words carry power, and you have the final say. Who dare tampers with your decrees? Anyone who does that is in trouble! Just believe this and it'll work for you always.

There was a powerful story I heard about a woman whose husband was a pastor. A report came to her that her husband had died. She kept saying that she wouldn't believe it until she had seen him. As a result, she was taken to where her husband laid. When she was left alone, she took her husband and stood him straight even though he was dead. Her husband was a hefty man but because she acted in faith and knowledge, she received the divine strength to raise him up. She then stood a few meters from him and commanded him to come to life in the Name of Jesus! Yes, her husband's body shook; he came back to life. Hallelujah! Nothing is impossible when you make a decree.

If you've been declared to die as a result of an ailment, beware you have the right to choose. You ought to know it, stand on it, and then say, "Death, you have been defeated. You get out of my way in the Name of Jesus! I'm living to give glory to God in the land of the living." And that is what is going to happen. Praise God! You're no longer a nobody; you have become somebody special because you live with dignity. Just imagine; when blind Bartimaeus called upon Jesus, He stopped. This is the God of the universe stopping because a man called. You're so important to God that when you call, He'll stop everything else and give you His attention. A lot of us have never taken advantage of these things. For that matter, we're bound and held captive by the false doctrines flying everywhere.

Even if you're in school and things are not going the way they should, you can talk to them. If it's a problem with some subjects, you can talk to them. If you have a difficulty paying for your fees, you can declare words of power to have it changed. Whatever you want to see become a reality is possible; it's in your mouth! When we come across people and we say God bless them, they think, "He might have been a pastor." But the fact is that we're distributing blessings everywhere. That's the reason why in every message I post, I end with "God bless you." I understand the power behind my words. When I say "God bless you", you are blessed!

One day, Jesus was with His disciples, "And He called to Him the Twelve \[apostles\] and began to send them out \[as His ambassadors\] two by two and gave them authority and power over the unclean spirits. So they went out and preached that men should repent \[that they should change their minds for the better and heartily amend their ways, with abhorrence of their past sins\] And they drove out many unclean spirits and anointed with oil many who were sick and cured them. The apostles \[sent out as missionaries\] came back and gathered together to Jesus, and told Him all that they had done and taught" (Mark 6:7, 12, 13, 30 AMP).

The disciples preached as Jesus ordered them, but they also healed the sick as they taught. The working of miracles should happen as you preach the gospel. You can take a look at the message "[THESE SIGNS SHALL FOLLOW](http://rhemafromgod.blogspot.com/2011/09/these-signs-shall-follow.html)", if you've not done so. Today, when some people see men of God preaching with the working of miracles, they think too negative. It's as if they don't know there're 9 gifts of the Spirit - Wisdom, Knowledge, Faith, Healing, Working of miracles, Prophecy, Discerning of spirits, Divers kinds of tongues and the interpretation of tongues (1 Corinthians 12:7-10). So why are they surprised to see the working of miracles by some men of God. When you look at the ministry of Jesus, He didn't just teach the people. He taught with the demonstration of power and working of miracles.

The Apostle Paul testified of his ministry, "Through mighty signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God; so that from Jerusalem, and round about unto Illyricum, I have fully preached the gospel of Christ" (Romans 15:19). He testified of himself, not just presenting a word gospel, but a gospel with power. In Paul's letter to the church of the Thessalonians, he told them, "For our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power, and in the Holy Ghost..." (1 Thessalonians 1:5). Bible testified of him by saying that, "And God did unusual and extraordinary miracles by the hands of Paul, So that handkerchiefs or towels or aprons which had touched his skin were carried away and put upon the sick, and their diseases left them and evil spirits came out of them" (Acts 19:11-12 AMP). The King James Bible calls those miracles special. There's no limit to the life of the recreated man.

When Jesus sent out the twelve apostles, He gave them power. The apostles didn't just preach, they demonstrated the power they were endued with. Bible refers to us as ambassadors (2 Corinthians 5:20), just as the twelve. When Jesus resurrected from the dead, He appeared to the disciples, "And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned. And these signs shall follow them that believe; In my name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; They shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover.

So then after the Lord had spoken unto them, he was received up into heaven, and sat on the right hand of God. And they went forth, and preached every where, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word with signs following. Amen" (Mark 16:15-20). This great commission has been entrusted to us. Don't speak negative things about those who perform miracles. Of course Jesus said there shall be false prophets but don't say it if you don't know. Jesus said all manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven, but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven (Matthew 12:31). Use the power in your mouth. There're those who don't believe in miracles, but why do I worry about them if it's working for me?

There was a time in the ministry of Jesus where He appointed 70 men and sent them two by two to go into every city and place, where He Himself would visit. He said to them, "Whatever house you enter, first say, Peace be to this household! \[Freedom from all distresses that result from sin be with this family\]. And if anyone \[worthy\] of peace and blessedness is there, the peace and blessedness you wish shall come upon him; but if not, it shall come back to you. And heal the sick in it and say to them, The kingdom of God has come close to you" (Luke 10:5, 6, 9 AMP). Jesus told them to open their mouth and declare peace to them. He was also concerned about the working of miracles wherever He was preached and made known. Take a look at His ministry; He worked out miracles as He taught the people. This is His desire for you; He wants you to make Him known with the accompanying signs and wonders.

You're a precious king, for you were enthroned, not by men but by God. You're from above and superior to everything in the earth! Put the Word to work: "But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves" (James 1:22). The Word works always, and that's where the title of this blog came from. There are some people who're behaving like the guy who hid the goods he received from his master in the earth. Instead of trading with them, he decided to return them as they were to the master. The other two traded with theirs and gained as twice as what was given them. When the master returned, he applauded the two servants and called them faithful. The other guy who returned what was given to him without making any profit was cast out of the house (Matthew 25:14-29).

When Jesus sent His disciples out with power and authority over unclean spirits, they gave Him a full report about what they did with the power and what they had taught. When you get to heaven, what would you tell God when He asks you about what you did with the authority He gave you? I'm looking forward to when He'll tap my shoulder and say, "well done, my son." Rev. Smith Wigglesworth wrote a story where he testified about how he came to the knowledge that he had the gift of healing. He was taking the sick to a church for them to be healed. Meanwhile, the pastors of the church used to stand on top of the building as they watch him bring the sick to be healed.

The pastors said, "Smith could heal these people long before bringing them here". So one day, they intentionally embarked on a trip and got Rev. Smith Wigglesworth to take charge of the healing service. "Ouch! What are these people doing?" he might have thought. He said on that day, extraordinary things happened. He did things he didn't know was possible. Since then, his life changed. He's even referred to as "the great man of faith"; and if you've been reading most of my messages, you'll realize I do quote some of his statements. You don't know what you have until you put the Word to work. The more you put your faith to work, the more it grows. You're a king, and your words carry power. Use them to cause the changes you desire; you can effect changes in the lives of people by declaring the Word of Power over them. All things are possible!

Declare the Word with boldness, don't be apologetic. With your mouth you change your estate. Believing what God says and confessing the same will change your life. This is because there's power in the Word. You've been ordained by God to reign and rule in this realm of life; He made you superior to the devil and every demon of darkness. For the years ahead, not only does God expect you to see yourself as a king, He also expects you to live as one too.

"Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might" (Ephesians 6:10).

God bless you!
