---
title: 'We Are The Righteousness Of God - Part 2'
date: '2011-10-04'
lastmod: '2011-10-08'
tags: ['righteousness', 'power', 'realities']
draft: false
summary: "Never give in to what people say about you. For example, during Jesus' days, He was always accused by the scribe and Pharisees for doing wrong. The Pharisees charged Jesus and His disciples for breaking the sabbath."
authors: ['default']
---

Never give in to what people say about you. For example, during Jesus' days, He was always accused by the scribe and Pharisees for doing wrong. The Pharisees charged Jesus and His disciples for breaking the sabbath. According to the Pharisees, the sabbath law was broken when the disciples plucked and rubbed the wheat grains in their hands. The Pharisees had a list of 39 activities that were prohibited on the Sabbath; among them were reaping and threshing. The disciples plucked the heads of grain; that was considered reaping. Then they rubbed them in their hands; that was threshing. Jesus was culpable because He did not stop His disciples from "breaking the sabbath." His disciples were hungry, and plucked some wheat grains to eat; was the Master wrong to allow them to do it?

Jesus and His disciples clearly did not violate the sabbath law. What they went against were those extra-biblical, man-made, and foolish laws of the Pharisees (Luke 11:46). Jesus rebutted the accusations of the Pharisees by citing the example of David who ate of the shewbread that only the priests were allowed to eat. David was hungry, and Ahimelech the priest, knowing the law for sure, did not forbid David and his men to fill their stomachs with forbidden bread (1 Samuel 21:1-6; Leviticus 24:9). Ahimelech "broke" the ceremonial law of Leviticus 24:9, but was blameless. David likewise "broke" that law by eating of the ceremonial bread, and was guiltless as well. If Ahimelech and David were innocent, how could Jesus the great High Priest, the greater David be guilty? Moreover, Jesus Himself is the Lord of the sabbath! Jesus had every right to ignore a divinely ordained ceremonial provision when necessity demanded it.

The higher law of necessity overrides the lower law of ceremony. Jesus did not break the law but kept it perfectly. Jesus laid down a wonderful principle for sabbath-keeping when He said, "The sabbath was made for man, and not man for the sabbath" (Mark 2:27). In other words, the sabbath was made for man's advantage and not disadvantage. The sabbath was not meant to be a burden but a benefit to man. Thus any legalistic application of the sabbath law contradicts its God-given role for man. Here is another instance where the scribes and Pharisees accused Jesus of breaking the sabbath. Instead of paying attention to His teachings, they were busy trying to catch Him at fault. They attempted this in vain. Jesus is impeccable. He can never sin or do wrong. As usual, Jesus would teach in the synagogue on the sabbath. On that day, there was a man who had a withered right hand. The scribes and the Pharisees questioned Jesus over the lawfulness of healing on the sabbath.

Jesus answered with a question, "Is it lawful on the sabbath days to do good, or to do evil? To save life, or to destroy it?" (Luke 6:9). That rhetorical question shut their mouths. For if they were to answer that it was lawful to do good on the sabbath, then they would be wrong to fault Jesus for healing the sick. If they were to say that it was evil to do good on the sabbath day, then their wickedness would be exposed. They could not answer. Jesus Himself gave them the answer to His very own question: "And he said unto them, What man shall there be among you, that shall have one sheep, and if it fall into a pit on the sabbath day, will he not lay hold on it, and lift it out? How much then is a man better than a sheep? Wherefore it is lawful to do well on the sabbath days" (Matthew 12:11-12). This is a perfect answer that is both logical and biblical according to Exodus 23:4-5 and Deuteronomy 22:4.

Noting their unbelief and hardness of heart, Jesus in a final act of grace, healed the handicapped man. In so doing, He demonstrated His power, proving that He truly is the Lord of the sabbath, or Jehovah Himself, the Author of the sabbath law. The scribes and Pharisees ought to humble themselves before Jesus after this wonderful demonstration of God's grace. Instead of being repentant, they became angrier. In wicked rebellion, they hated Him all the more, and wanted to kill Him. On the sabbath, Jesus healed a man who suffered for 38 years a terrible disease that caused him to be bedridden. This man hoped to be cured at the pool of Bethesda where an angel occasionally stirred the water for healing. Only the first one to step into the pool would be healed. This man no longer needed to wait. Jesus, the Messianic Angel, had arrived "with healing in His wings" (Malachi 4:2). Jesus healed him by the power of His Word, "Rise, take up thy bed, and walk" (John 5:8).

The Jews became very angry with Jesus because He healed on the sabbath, and even sought to kill Him. "But Jesus answered them, My Father worketh hitherto, and I work" (John 5:17). Both the Father and the Son were united in accomplishing the work of man's redemption. Jesus did not work independently. He worked in conjunction with His Father. Jesus' argument showed how absurd their accusation was, for in faulting Him the Son, they also faulted Jehovah the Father. God the Father and God the Son are one not only in essence but also in their work of accomplishing the eternal plan of redemption. God the Son works in tandem with God the Father. What the Father thinks, the Son thinks. What the Father does, the Son does. Whom the Father condemns, the Son condemns also. There is perfect harmony and agreement between the two. They are never in conflict. So when the Son is honoured, the Father is honoured, and when the Son is despised, the Father is likewise despised.

The Father and the Son are inseparable. They have the same judgment, the same authority, and the same power. Both the Father and the Son bestow life upon those who believe. That is why Jesus said, "Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation; but is passed from death unto life" (John 5:24). The first covenant that God had with the Old Testament folks had a fault. "For if that first covenant had been without defect, there would have been no room for another one or an attempt to institute another one. However, He finds fault with them showing its inadequacy when He says, Behold, the days will come, says the Lord, when I will make and ratify a new covenant or agreement with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah.

It will not be like the covenant that I made with their forefathers on the day when I grasped them by the hand to help and relieve them and to lead them out from the land of Egypt, for they did not abide in My agreement with them, and so I withdrew My favor and disregarded them, says the Lord. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord: I will imprint My laws upon their minds, even upon their innermost thoughts and understanding, and engrave them upon their hearts; and I will be their God, and they shall be My people. And it will nevermore be necessary for each one to teach his neighbor and his fellow citizen or each one his brother, saying, Know (perceive, have knowledge of, and get acquainted by experience with) the Lord, for all will know Me, from the smallest to the greatest of them. For I will be merciful and gracious toward their sins and I will remember their deeds of unrighteousness no more.

When God speaks of a new covenant or agreement, He makes the first one obsolete (out of use). And what is obsolete (out of use and annulled because of age) is ripe for disappearance and to be dispensed with altogether" (Hebrews 8:7-13, AMP). The Old Testament covenant is passed; we live in the new one now. We’re not just a people of the New Covenant but a product of it; Hallelujah! We may read the Old Testament but we should do it putting on the glasses of the New Testament. "For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin; that we might be made the righteousness of God in him" (2 Corinthians 5:21). Jesus took our place and nature while on the cross. Now we have been declared righteous through Him. So when God looks at us, all He sees is righteousness; He doesn't see any sin, No wonder the Bible says, "There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit" (Romans 8:1). Praise God!

That's the privileges of the Children of God of which they must walk in. There is no condemnation to those who are in Christ, who walk not after the flesh but at the Spirit. Your flesh might sometimes limit you but learn to submit to the Spirit. The scripture said "There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus..." The "therefore" points to the argument of the chapter 7 of the book of Romans, which shows that in Christ, we are delivered from sin and from the curse of the law. No condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus, as those in Christ have died with him (Romans 6:1-4), they have in him satisfied the law, and hence they cannot be under condemnation. He, the sinless One, "was made sin for us;" so we, forgiven through him, are "made the righteousness of God in him" (2Corinthians 5:21). This blessed condition depends on a vital union with Christ, "Baptized into Christ" (Romans 6:3), we must walk in him, "not after the flesh, but after the Spirit."

This is the reason why as a child of God, it's wrong for you to welter and wallow in the rot of condemnation, because all your sins were laid on Jesus. Never find yourself struggling to be righteous or trying to please God by your good works. The Bible says, to God, "...all our righteousnesses are as filthy rags..." (Isaiah 64:6). Our being humble should not make us lose knowledge of who we are. He brought us out and brought us in. We are in his marvelous light. It's our responsibility to set forth God's wonderful deeds, to display his virtues and perfections. You have an excellent Spirit so stop struggling. Salvation is very big but you simply say "yes" to it and you have it. God's not impressed by man's ideas or definitions of righteousness; what He wants is for us to submit to His righteousness: "For they being ignorant of God's righteousness, and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God" (Romans 10:3).

It is now shown that their zeal was "not according to knowledge" (Romans 10:2). They had no knowledge of God's plan of righteousness, righteousness by believing upon Christ, but rejecting it they sought a righteousness of their own, of works, secured by keeping the law, and by obeying the traditions of men (Mark 7:7, 8). On the other hand, they refused to submit to God's righteousness through faith. The scripture didn't say anything about us gaining the righteousness of God. Rather, we're to submit or give ourselves to it. This is what God requires of us; to submit to His righteousness. It means to believe, accept and endorse that what Christ did on the Cross for you was enough. It was a perfect sacrifice, and you can't improve on perfect. Therefore, you don't need to try to be anymore righteous than what God has declared you to be.

Just accept you're the righteousness of God in Christ Jesus. When you do, you'll live everyday without a sense of condemnation; knowing that your righteousness is the righteousness of Christ. If you do something wrong, all the Lord expects from you is to confess that wrong and receive His forgiveness: "If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness" (1 John 1:9). Instead of affirming that we are sinless we should confess our sins. God is faithful and just. If we confess our sins the Lord will be "faithful" to his promise of mercy, and "just" in requiring us to have the atonement of Christ, "to forgive us our sins". From the book of Philippians 3:7-9, Paul makes a very powerful statement. He said, "But whatever former things I had that might have been gains to me, I have come to consider as one combined loss for Christ's sake.

Yes, furthermore, I count everything as loss compared to the possession of the priceless privilege (the overwhelming preciousness, the surpassing worth, and supreme advantage) of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord and of progressively becoming more deeply and intimately acquainted with Him of perceiving and recognizing and understanding Him more fully and clearly. For His sake I have lost everything and consider it all to be mere rubbish (refuse, dregs), in order that I may win (gain) Christ (the Anointed One), And that I may actually be found and known as in Him, not having any self-achieved righteousness that can be called my own, based on my obedience to the Law's demands (ritualistic uprightness and supposed right standing with God thus acquired), but possessing that genuine righteousness which comes through faith in Christ (the Anointed One), the truly right standing with God, which comes from God by saving faith" (Isaiah 43:18-19, AMP).

How inspiring the scripture we just read. Paul decided to cast away what men would call righteous and get a hold of the righteousness of God which comes by faith in Christ Jesus. We can never enter Heaven by our own deeds or righteousness. God has made a way for us which is far more than we could even think of nor imagine. God is not a respecter of persons; he doesn't esteem one on top of the other. I tell God, "I thank you for the day of Moses, I thank you for the day of Elijah, I thank you for the day of David but this is my day. I have victory now!" "And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up: and, as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the sabbath day, and stood up for to read. And there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Esaias.

And when he had opened the book, he found the place where it was written, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised, To preach the acceptable year of the Lord. And he closed the book..." (Luke 4:16-20). This is what Jesus proclaimed in the synagogue, what His mission was. Remember Jesus repeated what was written about him from Isaiah 61:1-2. As you read this same scripture from the book of Isaiah, in verse 2 it reads, "To proclaim the acceptable year of the LORD, and the day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all that mourn." From here, we realize that Jesus didn't read the portion of vengeance because he didn't come to condemn or judge us. Jesus came to save us; not to kill us! Luke tells us that after reading the declaration of the acceptable year of the Lord, He closed the book!

We read from John 3:16-17, "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved." It's as simple as that. "For unto the angels hath he not put in subjection the world to come, whereof we speak. But one in a certain place testified, saying, what is man, that thou art mindful of him? or the son of man, that thou visitest him?" (Hebrews 2:5-6). He was wondering how God has put all things under man then he says we see not yet all things put under him. The reason is because of fear, man has become a victim. The purpose of Christ suffering was to bring us unto glory. When I see myself in Him, then I have all He has. When you look at yourself, you will see imperfections but when you look at Jesus, you see perfection. So you've got to always look at Jesus, your perfection.

Stop looking at yourself! "Looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our faith..." (Hebrews 12:2). As I share this with you, I want you to also note that there is the unpardonable sin. The sin of blasphemy against the Spirit is unpardonable. How is this sin against the Spirit committed, and who are the people who commit this sin? Jesus from the beginning of His public ministry had preached the good news of salvation, done good, and performed many miracles which in no uncertain terms proved His deity and Messiahship (John 10:37-38). Yet the Jewish religious leaders wilfully chose not to believe in Him. When they could find no fault in His message, or His works, they attacked His person, accusing Him of doing all His miracles by the power of the devil when it was clearly the work of the Spirit.

This sin is unforgivable because the only avenue of forgiveness through the convicting work of the Spirit has been rejected. The greatest sin that anyone can commit that leads to eternal damnation is the sin of rejecting Jesus Christ as Saviour and Lord (John 3:18). The constant, persistent, voluntary, wilful, decisive rejection of the gospel is tantamount to the unpardonable sin of blasphemy against the Spirit.

What happens when a person commits the unpardonable sin of blasphemy against the Spirit? The consequences are as follows:

1. God abandons the man totally to his own destruction (Jeremiah 7:13-16; Hebrews 10:26-27).
2. God judicially hardens or blinds the person to the truth (Matt 13:15; John 12:37-40, e.g. Pharaoh; Exodus 9:12, 10:1, 20, 27, 14:8; Roams 1:24).
3. The sinner finds it impossible to repent (Hebrews 6:6, e.g. Judas Iscariot, Matthew 27:3-5; 2 Corinthians 7:10).

It is not possible for a Christian to commit the unpardonable sin. He who has been truly regenerated by the Spirit cannot possibly fall into so horrid a crime. The third part has even more for our consumption - [let's keep studying](https://www.rhemafromgod.com/we-are-the-righteousness-of-god-part-3 "we are the righteousness of God part 3").
