---
title: 'We Are Kings and Priests - Part 1'
date: '2012-04-02'
lastmod: '2012-04-05'
tags: ['authority', 'power', 'realities']
draft: false
summary: "We've been made kings and priests! We already know about our [priestly ministry](https://www.rhemafromgod.com/the-intercessory-prayer). So in this very message, we're going to have a look at our rights as kings."
authors: ['default']
---

We've been made kings and priests! We already know about our [priestly ministry](https://www.rhemafromgod.com/the-intercessory-prayer). So in this very message, we're going to have a look at our rights as kings. But then, there're mysteries and deep insights about our kingship, and I'm glad to share them with you. Kings are very special. There're some unique attributes that make them who they are, and that's what we're going to have a look at. It's my prayer that by the time you're through reading this article, you'd be enlightened to know about your rightful place and dominion in Christ. It's insightful and you'll never remain the same after catching the message thought of this article. Jesus made us kings and priests unto God - you are a king-priest!

"And from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, and the first begotten of the dead, and the prince of the kings of the earth. Unto him that loved us, and washed us from our sins in his own blood, And hath made us kings and priests unto God and his Father; to him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen" (Revelation 1:5-6). When God created the world, the devil was certainly eager to know whom He would appoint to take charge of it. Of course, he might have been surprised God didn't give it to any of the angels. After God had created man, He blessed and told him to subdue and have dominion over everything in the earth (Genesis 1:27-28). Though the devil stole that right from man, it was restored by our Lord Jesus Christ by defeating the devil and his cohorts in hell (Colossians 2:15).

I'm quite surprised when people ask God why he allows negative things to happen in our world. Well, the reason is because such folks do not know who they really are. In fact, God doesn't have the right to live here and that's why when He had to atone for our sins, He came in the form of man (John 1:14). God has given man the authority and power to choose for himself, so what happens in his environment depends on his own decision. God said, "I call heaven and earth to record this day against you, that I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing: therefore choose life, that both thou and thy seed may live" (Deuteronomy 30:19). He's given us the power to choose, so what you allow is what will happen. Hear me, God never determines what happens in a person's life, He's not in control of anybody's life. If He is, then He might have been a failure. You look at some people's lives and they're too ugly!

And do you think it's God's will for them? Absolutely not! He has said it in His Word that His people will perish when they lack knowledge (Hosea 4:6). By virtue of the redemptive work of Christ, you have been declared free and at liberty to choose the way to live. We have freedom in Christ, which comes with legal rights that empower you to dictate the course of your life. We have been called unto liberty in Christ Jesus (Galatians 5:13). God doesn't determine the course for anybody's life, that's why He's given you the power to do it. Jesus brought us out of slavery so He could bring us into freedom (Luke 4:18) - freedom with legal rights. We have the right to choose, and the right to rule. Some people think that when they come to Jesus, He chooses for them but that's not true. They think you completely lose your right to choose when you come to Him.

Remember, Jesus made you a king. The only thing you need do is to find out what kings do. But what if you're a woman? You're also a king! Why not queen? Because Bible said every believer is a king, whether male or female. Being a woman is not a problem at all. You can live the best of life you wish to. You can be a woman, but you don't have to be womanish. There's a big difference between being a woman and being womanish. English will tell you a woman cannot be a king but Bible says so and it's final. This may not sound English-wise but as far as the Word has said it, you're a king! So don't be confused or feel bad when you see kings throughout this message. It's what God's Word says and that's how it'll be presented throughout this article. God's Word says, "Where the word of a king is, there is power: and who may say unto him, What doest thou?" (Ecclesiastes 8:4).

So as a king, whatever you say is final. No one can challenge what you say. It then goes on to say that "As long as you obey his commands, you are safe, and a wise person knows how and when to do it" (Ecclesiastes 8:5 GNB). In essence, your words cannot be tampered with. The angels for instance, are ministering spirits (Hebrews 1:13-14); they minister to us, and they are our servants. It's wrong for a person to worship or bow down to an angel because we're superior to them (Colossians 2:18-19). The angels warned John not to worship them (Revelation 19:10; 22:8-9). When words go out of our mouth, the angels act quickly and respond to them. Why do you think we speak in tongues of angels? (1 Corinthians 13:1). When we speak, we give out commands to the angels. And the book of Ecclesiastes says as long as you obey a king's commands, you're safe.

In other words, the angels cannot disobey you. There was a man in Ghana who happened to find himself in the presence of God as the doctors declared him dead. He said he was taken to a place where he saw angels. He asked why they were there, and he was told they were waiting for men to pray so that they would act, based on their prayers. Wow! This means that they were waiting for the commands from their kings! So the question then is, "How many times have you made positive declarations?" Your mouth is not just for eating and drinking, but also for charting the course of your life. As a believer, don't just go round your business, return home in the evening and go to bed without making any declaration. Let it become a part of your life; do it anywhere and anytime!

There's such a creative ability in the believer. Bible says, "Thou shalt also decree a thing, and it shall be established unto thee: and the light shall shine upon thy ways. When men are cast down, then thou shalt say, There is lifting up..." (Job 22:28-29). Kings don't beg; they make decrees. Whatever you say as a king is established, so the Word says when men are complaining and talking about the negative stuffs, you say, "the future is bright and it's well with me!" When you do, the light shall shine upon your ways. You won't experience any form of darkness - disease, lack, failure, bitterness, death etc. Glory to God! Begin to make declarations of faith immediately; exercise your God-given authority and dominion over the devil and the negative forces of life. You need to be bold as a king. Kings don't slouch; they square their shoulders and walk with dignity - with their heads up high!

The Apostle Paul bowed down his knees unto God, that the saints at Ephesus would be strengthened with might by the Spirit in the inner man (Ephesians 3:13-16). The Greek word for strengthened is "krataiothenai," which means invigorated. And the Greek name for might is "dunamei," which means miracle-working ability. So Paul prayed that they'll be invigorated with the miracle working ability. The Word says, "But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you..." (Acts 1:8). Power, as referred to in the context is the Greek word "dunamis." It is the dynamic ability to cause changes! Paul and Timothy prayed for the saints in Colosse that they may be "Strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power..." (Colossians 1:11). This means that you're transfused with power as long as the Holy Ghost lives in you.

You are a king, so make up your mind to walk, talk, pray and live like one throughout this year, because that's who you are! When God looks at you, He sees a king. He doesn't see a helpless, needy person who's always looking for a way out; He sees you full of dominion and authority. When God speaks, things happen. Concerning creation, Bible says, "By the word of the LORD were the heavens made; and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. For he spake, and it was done; he commanded, and it stood fast" (Psalm 33:6, 9). Nothing happened until He spoke. It was only man that He said, "...Let us make man in our image, after our likeness..." (Genesis 1:26). When He formed man of the dust of the ground, He "...breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul" (Genesis 2:7). By breathing into man, His very nature was birthed into him and as a result, man became the God-kind.

We are born by God (1 Peter 1:23), which gives us the ability to behave and act like Him. So just like God, you can speak to recreate your world. Did you ever know that the devil and his cohorts tremble at your voice? Concerning the voice of God, Bible says: "The voice of the Lord is upon the waters; the God of glory thunders; the Lord is upon many (great) waters. The voice of the Lord is powerful; the voice of the Lord is full of majesty. The voice of the Lord breaks the cedars; yes, the Lord breaks in pieces the cedars of Lebanon. He makes them also to skip like a calf; Lebanon and Sirion (Mount  Hermon) like a young, wild ox. The voice of the Lord splits and flashes forth forked lightning. The voice of the Lord makes the wilderness tremble; the Lord shakes the wilderness of Kadesh. The voice of the Lord makes the hinds bring forth their young, and His voice strips bare the forests, while in His temple everyone is saying, Glory! The Lord sat as King over the deluge; the Lord \[still\] sits as King \[and\] forever!" (Psalm 29:3-10 AMP).

That's how powerful God's voice is, and you can see why His Words carry power. When you speak, that's how your words are presented in the realm of the spirit. This is because you're the God-kind, the expression of His image. Of course, God doesn't want to see people run away when you speak, but in the realm of the spirit your words shake hell. This is the reason why the devil fears your voice! Why do you also think God expects us to pray and make the changes we desire? It's because He knows the kind of nature we bear; He knows what we're made of. Your knowledge about this will change your prayer life forever. God never begs for something He desires to get; He only speaks and they're established. Why then do you beg and live like a nobody?

Listen, "For though we walk (live) in the flesh, we are not carrying on our warfare according to the flesh and using mere human weapons. For the weapons of our warfare are no physical \[weapons of flesh and blood\], but they are mighty before God for the overthrow and destruction of strongholds" (2 Corinthians 10:3-4 AMP). The war is taking place in the realm of the spirit and you do it with the words in your mouth. Bible says the sword of the Spirit is the Word of God (Ephesians 6:17). We war with the Word on our Lips. God said, "Thou art my battle axe and weapons of war..." (Jeremiah 51:20). This doesn't mean that God uses you for battle. The devil's too small for God, so He's put you in charge and endued you with the power and authority to face him. So don't fight your fellow man; love and cherish him but go after the devil and his cohorts.

Recently, the Lord dropped something special into my spirit. When I went to bed, I had a dream through which the Lord spoke to me. Actually, there was a black board which had some whitish colour at a little portion of it. I realized I was trying so hard to get that whitish stuff rubbed off but it wasn't leaving. I was quite disappointed but hey, the Lord appeared. He called me by name and said, "You don't need to struggle over these things; only speak forth the word of power in your mouth." That's awesome! So you see why God doesn't want us struggling over the issues of life? He's put whatever you need in His Word. The only thing you need do is to find out what is available to you in His Word and apply them. It makes life so easy! Jesus and His disciples were once coming from Bethany; being angry, he looked afar and saw a fig tree with leaves. He came closer to get fruit from the tree but he found none.

For this reason He said to the tree, "...No one ever again shall eat fruit from you..." (Mark 11:14 AMP). And of course, the disciples heard Him. As they were passing by the same place in the morning, Peter saw it and said, "...Master, behold, the fig tree which thou cursedst is withered away" (Mark 11:21). Jesus in return said to them, "...Have faith in God. For verily I say unto you, That whosoever shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea; and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that those things which he saith shall come to pass; he shall have whatsoever he saith" (Mark 11:22-23). Another time a man came to Jesus, telling Him to have mercy on his son and cure him, for he had epilepsy. He complained about the inability of the disciples to cure his son when he brought him to them. Jesus rebuked His disciples' unbelief and rebuked the demon out of him, and the boy was cured instantly.

Afterwards, the disciples came to Jesus privately, asking Him why they couldn't cure the boy themselves. Jesus said to them, "Because of your unbelief: for verily I say unto you, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove; and nothing shall be impossible unto you" (Matthew 17:20). Jesus didn't say some things will be impossible; He said nothing shall be impossible unto you. So don't think you cannot do something, for all things are possible! Jesus was with His disciples in the ship, and Bible records that "And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the ship, so that it was now full. And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow: and they awake him, and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish?

And he arose, and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. And he said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? how is it that ye have no faith? And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, What manner of man is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?" (Mark 4:37-41). Glory to God! Jesus didn't fret when He got up from sleep; rather, He rebuked the wind and told the sea to be still. They obeyed Him! He was that bold; this means kings don't fret. To Jesus, everything was sensitive to hearing. He could talk to anything and they obeyed!

OH, if we knew our right as king-priests! There's even more for our studies in the [second part](https://www.rhemafromgod.com/we-are-kings-and-priests-part-2) - you will surely be blessed. Let's keep journeying into our Christ-has-made-us-kings series.
