---
title: 'Ye Are The Light Of The World - Part 2'
date: '2012-02-26'
updated: '2012-02-29'
tags: ['realities', 'mystery']
draft: false
summary: "So when Jesus said: 'it's the Father in me who does the works and not me,' then we also have the power from God to live the supernatural and glorious life."
authors: ['default']
---

So when Jesus said: 'it's the Father in me who does the works and not me,' then we also have the power from God to live the supernatural and glorious life. We can also do what Jesus did, for it's "Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the LORD of hosts" (Zechariah 4:6). Hallelujah! We also declare that the works we do are not of us but by the Spirit! No wonder Jesus said, "Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do; because I go unto my Father. And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If ye shall ask any thing in my name, I will do it" (John 14:12-14).

Jesus said if we have faith in Him, we can do greater works than He did. The same Bible says, "And there are also many other things which Jesus did, the which, if they should be written every one, I suppose that even the world itself could not contain the books that should be written. Amen" (John 21:25). This tells us that Jesus did so much! If He said we can do greater than He did, then it means that we can always grow some more. There's a place the church of God is growing to, and we should all desire to be there. Do you ever know that the book of Acts did not end? If it didn't, then it means that we're to continue and complete it! We're to flow more in the anointing by the power of the Holy Ghost! When I think about these things, I'm energized to do more. There's so much we can do in our world brethren in Christ.

Just like Jesus, when someone asks you to show him God, you can tell him to look at you because he that has seen you has seen God. I remember something Rev. Chris Oyakhilome told us. He said he went to someone's home for a visit and as soon as a little girl in the house saw him, she proclaimed: "That's Jesus on TV!" He said that little girl was right because he's the representative of God on earth. And it's so with every believer. Some people might think or say you're making yourself equal with God but don't forget what happened in Jesus' days. In John 5 we see Jesus in Jerusalem. While there, He came across a man who had an infirmity for thirty eight years. This man was at the pool which was called in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda, only waiting for the water to be stirred by the angel of the Lord.

When the water was stirred, he would step into it and be made whole. When Jesus saw him, he asked if he wanted to be healed. The man began to say stories but Jesus said to him, "...Rise, take up thy bed, and walk" (John 5:8). Immediately the man was made whole, and took up his bed, and walked and it was even a Sabbath day (John 5:9). When the Jews saw the man carrying his bed, they told him it wasn't lawful for it was the Sabbath day. But this man answered them saying, "He that made me whole, the same said unto me, Take up thy bed, and walk" (John 5:11). The man introduced Jesus to the Jews when he realised He was the one that healed him. The Jews persecuted and sought to slay Jesus, because He had healed on the Sabbath day. But He said to them, "...My Father worketh hitherto, and I work" (John 5:17). Wow! Jesus refers to God as His Father.

No wonder the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he not only had broken the sabbath, but said also that God was his Father, making himself equal with God (John 5:18). But then Jesus answered them again saying, "...Verily, verily, I say unto you, The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do: for what things soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise. For the Father loveth the Son, and sheweth him all things that himself doeth: and he will shew him greater works than these, that ye may marvel. For as the Father raiseth up the dead, and quickeneth them; even so the Son quickeneth whom he will" (John 5:19-21). Jesus Himself was also persecuted for making known His true identity. The reason why the Jews persecuted Jesus was that, as long as He called God His Father, then He was calling Himself God. This is because a dog gives birth to a dog, a lizard gives birth to a lizard... and God gives birth to a god.

You can't have a dog give birth to a lizard and vice versa. Psalm 82:6 declares: "I have said, Ye are gods; and all of you are children of the most High." Jesus testified to this when He said, "Is it not written in your law, I said, Ye are gods?" (John 10:34). We're gods because we're the children of God. When you even take a close look at Jesus' statement, He said, "is it not written in your law, I said, Ye are gods?" But we refer to the Bible as the Word of God; meaning, Jesus is the Word of God (John 1:14). Glory to God! John continues to write about our sonship as inspired by the Holy Spirit: "But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name: Which were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God" (John 1:12-13). When you got born again, the very life you received when your parents gave birth to you was supplanted by the very life of God.

That's what makes the difference and it's the reason why the Word declares, "Ye are of God, little children..." (1 John 4:4). The "of" there depicts our association, relationship and origin. We hail from God! The continuation of this verse says you "have overcome them: because greater is he that is in you, than he that is in the world." You don't struggle in life if you know this; you don't suffer at all. From the Amplified Bible, 1 Peter 1:23 says, "You have been regenerated (born again), not from a mortal origin (seed, sperm), but from one that is immortal by the ever living and lasting Word of God." Even this verse alone brings in loads of mysteries when you meditate upon it. The life that you received from your parents perishes but this one never perishes, neither does it fail. It's the life of God flowing through you right now and you've got to recognize and believe it.

I recommend that you read an articles I shared that explains [the life of God in us](zoe-the-god-kind-of-life-part-1) in great detail. You see, God's Word is too loaded! It has the answer to every question you have. It's the book for inspiration, life, godliness, dominion, prosperity, success and every good thing you can ever think of. It's the book that contains the will Papa God has for us (Acts 20:32). Without knowing it, the believer can live and act like a pauper! That's why the Word says "That the heir, as long as he is a child, differeth nothing from a servant, though he be lord of all" (Galatians 4:1). Earthly parents are never happy when their children are not growing, and it's the same with God. Since we're ambassadors for God here on earth, we don't lack at all. Let me give this scenario. The British ambassador to Ghana does not worry about the quality of life he would live while he's here.

No matter how bad the economy may seem, he'll always enjoy the best of life even though he were here. When the price for goods and services rise, he imposes his pound! He brings his pound out because he knows it values more than the Ghana Cedi. When he wants to drive in a car that's not available on the Ghanaian market, he quickly phones in for a car. In other words, no matter how bad the economy may seem, he brings as much as the best life he can bring from his country to Ghana. So he lives in Ghana as though he were in Britain. In the same way, we're to also bring as much as the better life in heaven here on earth. We come from God's Kingdom but living here temporary.

"Giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light: Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son" (Colossians 1:12-13). We're the children of God and heirs to His endless resources. When the world lacks what we need in a particular time, we can "phone in" to Zion to bring one from there. We're not to suffer in the hands of the world at all. We may suffer persecutions and hatred from the world but that cannot affect our status in life. Concerning Isaac Bible says, "And the man waxed great, and went forward, and grew until he became very great: For he had possession of flocks, and possession of herds, and great store of servants: and the Philistines envied him" (Genesis 26:13-14).

Even in famine Isaac prospered! Take the ministry of Jesus for instance. When the people were angry, he called for the five loaves of bread and two fishes, raised them up to the heavens and blessed it. Lo and behold they were multiplied, such that fives thousand men (women and children not counted) were fed. There remained twelve baskets full as surplus (Matthew 14:15-21). Remember a similar miracle took place in Matthew 15:32-38. This time Jesus took seven loaves of bread and a few little fishes, gave thanks and broke them, and gave to His disciples and the disciples to the multitude. They did eat and were filled, leaving seven baskets full as leftovers. Four thousand men were fed this time (women and children not counted). So Jesus performed twice as such miracles.

When Jesus and Peter were in Capernaum, they that collected tributes asked Peter if Jesus does not pay tribute. Peter answered, "Yes!" But Jesus didn't want to offend them so He told Peter, "...go thou to the sea, and cast an hook, and take up the fish that first cometh up; and when thou hast opened his mouth, thou shalt find a piece of money: that take, and give unto them for me and thee" (Matthew 17:27). One day as Jesus was preaching on the shore of the sea of Galilee, great crowds pressed in on Him to listen to the Word of God. He noticed two empty boats at the water's edge, for the fishermen had left them and were washing their nets. Stepping into one one of the boats, Jesus asked Simon, its owner, to push it out into the water. Se He sat in the boat and taught the crowds from there.

When He had finished speaking to them He said to Simon, "...Launch out into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught" (Luke 5:4). Simon told Him they had toiled all night and had caught nothing, but at His Word he will let down the net. Bible says, "And when they had this done, they inclosed a great multitude of fishes: and their net brake. And they beckoned unto their partners, which were in the other ship, that they should come and help them. And they came, and filled both the ships, so that they began to sink" (Luke 5:6-7). Even two boats were not enough for they began to sink after filling them. We can learn so much from the life of the Master. When He needed something that the world couldn't provide, He brought it from His World (Heaven). During His ministry, He said to the Jews, "Ye are from beneath; I am from above: ye are of this world; I am not of this world" (John 8:23).

Jesus was very conscious of His origin, which made Him a difference in His generation. But then He also tells us about our origin: "If ye were of the world, the world would love his own: but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you" (John 15:19). He declared to His Father concerning us, "They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. I have given them thy word; and the world hath hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world" (John 17:16, 14). He kept repeating our origin to God. Jesus was never limited! That's how we're to function. We have to see God as our number one provider and not men. After all, we're from above, just like Jesus.

God said, "Cursed be the man that trusteth in man, and maketh flesh his arm, and whose heart departeth from the LORD. For he shall be like the heath in the desert, and shall not see when good cometh; but shall inhabit the parched places in the wilderness, in a salt land and not inhabited" (Jeremiah 17:5-6). When you tend to depend on man to provide for you, it means that your heart has departed from the Lord. You rely on flesh instead of God. If you didn't know, you even don't have to rely on your parents, work, government etc. Didn't the Word say that you were born, not by men but the Word of God? If so, then God's your Father. If your Father, why would He fail to take care of you? Jesus said, "If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him?" (Matthew 7:11).

When you take a close look at the account of the men who really prospered in the Bible, they saw God as their number one source. I love David's remarkable statement: "THE LORD is my Shepherd to feed, guide, and shield me, I shall not lack. He makes me lie down in fresh, tender green pastures; He leads me beside the still and restful waters" (Psalm 23:1-2 AMP). That's how you've got to see God. And no wonder king David was super-wealthy! He was like, God is the Shepherd and I am the sheep. If you've seen a shepherd, you'll realize how they take their sheep out to feed on the grass. The shepherds make sure they take their sheep to the best (greener and not dried) pastures. That's how David describes God. He also made it clear that as far as God was his Shepherd, he'll never lack because God's source never runs dry.

After feeding, He leads him to the still and restful waters to have a drink; what a caring and loving God! God loves people who totally depend on Him; people who see Him as their true supply no matter what they go through. God is looking for men and women who can boast in Him. When David stood before Goliath, he knew that as far as he had God, all things are possible! (Mark 10:27). Bible says, "Blessed is the man that trusteth in the LORD, and whose hope the LORD is. For he shall be as a tree planted by the waters, and that spreadeth out her roots by the river, and shall not see when heat cometh, but her leaf shall be green; and shall not be careful in the year of drought, neither shall cease from yielding fruit" (Jeremiah 17:7-8). The Amplified Bible says the man who depends on God shall not be anxious and full of care in the year.

He shall not see and fear when heat or drought comes. Oh my goodness! Such people will not see when heat cometh. In other words, they cannot face the consequences of the heat; it can't affect them. It doesn't say heat will not come; it will come but they don't care! It also says those people will not be careful in the year of drought. In other words, no matter the economy of the world, they cannot be affected. They will not cease from yielding fruit for they're planted by the waters (they're plunged into the source of God). Hallelujah! Those people are plugged into the source; they're tapped to it! In Ghana, there're those who fetch water from long distances because they don't have pipe in their homes. But there are people who also have it and don't need to travel that long distance for water.

Those who fetch water from long distances have to go and fetch it over and over again because the water doesn't last long since they use it. Now, these people run dry because they're not tapped to the source! Those who're tapped to the source don't run dry, for they get the water to flow for them whenever they want and they can use as much as they can without ever thinking it'd finish. Do you see there's a difference between these two groups of people? One runs dry and the other doesn't. The one who's connected to the source will only not get his water to flow when there's a general problem. I gave that scenario to explain something. Those of us who see God as our number one supplier never run dry because we're connected to His source! The good thing is that God's supply doesn't face any problem so we're constantly getting the flow of resources from Him.

That's deep revelation! When we read the Word, we get to see that those whom God truly blessed never ran out of source. It was Job that lost everything he had and it was as a result of his attitude because he complained so much. But take notice he got back twice as what he lost (Job 42:10). Isaac grew mightier and mightier. Joseph gathered so much that nations came to buy food from him (Genesis 41:57). We read from the book of Psalm, where we're referred to as gods. But then before that God states why His people are suffering: "They know not, neither will they understand; they walk on in darkness: all the foundations of the earth are out of course" (Psalm 82:5). He then gives a warning that because they don't know who they are, they "...shall die like men, and fall like one of the princes" (Psalm 82:7).

Because they don't know who they are, they live much like ordinary men even though they are gods. For living like ordinary men, they shall die as such - suffer from sickness, diseases, poverty, lack, defeat, death etc. We carry an anointing that makes us different. I am of different specie and that's why I communicate with my heavenly Father in the language that the world and the devil do not understand; tongues! Bible saying "...we all with unveiled faces..." was in reference to Moses, for we are not like him "Nor do we act like Moses, who put a veil over his face so that the Israelites might not gaze upon the finish of the vanishing splendor which had been upon it" (2 Corinthians 3:13 AMP). We learnt that when Moses came down from Mount Sinai his face was radiant - it was emitting light.

Some of God's glory had been imparted to him while he was speaking with him, so he put a veil over his face until he went back into His presence. How had Moses got God's glory? He'd got it by being in His presence and speaking to him. How do we get God's glory? In the same way that Moses did: by being in his presence and speaking to him - particularly by praying in tongues, which is perfect communication with God, spirit to Spirit (1 Corinthians 14:14). Moreover, we're endued with the Holy Ghost who is fire and light; let's spend time with Him as we shine as lights in our world. I love to speak in tongues; it's always in my mouth. It's as normal to me as breathing and I'd recommend you to read an article where I throw more light on the subject of [speaking in tongues](speaking-in-tongues-part-1) - you will be blessed.

Unlike Moses, we're not to put a veil over our face when we speak to people. Jesus put it plain: "You don't light a lamp and put it under a bowl" (Matthew 5:15), "let your light shine before men..." You see, Jesus wants people to see God's glory in us. When it starts to fade, we need to get back into His presence and get more of His glory. We cannot shine for the Lord unless we've spent time with Him; spending time with Him through His Word and prayer. I'm particular about speaking in tongues because it's very important. With it you can continually remain in the presence of God by communing with the Father anywhere you are - spirit to Spirit.

The Christian - believer in Christ, is the light of the world, a city set on a hill that cannot be hidden. Wow!
