---
title: 'Ye Are The Light Of The World - Part 3'
date: '2012-02-26'
lastmod: '2012-02-30'
tags: ['new-creation-realities']
draft: false
summary: "The scripture says, 'And we, who with unveiled faces all reflect the Lord's glory.' It's God's will that every Christian reflect His glory. We're like little mirrors that He uses to shine His light on the earth."
authors: ['default']
---

The scripture says, 'And we, who with unveiled faces all reflect the Lord's glory.' It's God's will that every Christian reflect His glory. We're like little mirrors that He uses to shine His light on the earth. We reflect His nature and character as we walk around - don't forget who you are as you go through your daily activities. When you go out and people describe you in words that are not consistent with what God says about you, reject it! That's why you've got to constantly look at yourself in the Word, which is your Mirror. It's the Word (mirror) that describes you best!You exactly what you see when you look into it.

The Word of God is very important because we read in one of the verses that Jesus sustains all things by His powerful Word. To "sustain" means "to support, to uphold, to strengthen." We also learn in Genesis chapter 1 how God spoke and the universe came into being. The entire universe exists because the Word of God still upholds it. It's also very important to us because it strengthens and transforms us (Romans 12:2). We are being transfigured as we continue to behold (study and meditate) on the Word. John said, "...I have written unto you, young men, because ye are strong, and the word of God abideth in you, and ye have overcome the wicked one" (1 John 2:14). The young men He was writing to were strong because the Word of God lived in them.

The Word of God gives us spiritual strength. It's a weapon and a shield against the enemy. Jesus defeated Satan with the Word of God. He said: "Get thee hence, Satan: for it is written..." (Matthew 4:10). Let me tell you, God stands behind every believer who uses His Word. James gives an advice: "Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you" (James 4:7). If there's anything proving stubborn, stopping you from radiating God's glory, resist it in the Name of Jesus! Let the Word of God dwell in you richly; let it not be dormant. Learn to activate it. And I'm currently preparing a message on how to get the Word alive in us.

Sometimes we hear people say such things like, "and some of us got trapped." Trapped? We don't get trapped! Some people are living in countries where there're racial problems but hear me, if you have Jesus, there's neither white nor black, yellow nor brown for we're one! (Colossians 3:11). Nothing works against us. Listen, you're not a nobody; it doesn't matter what you do. Don't let your job define you; walk in the light as He is in the light (1 John 1:7). You may be the cleaner at a place, but tomorrow kings will come to you for advice. Or is it not written in the Word, that "He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth up the beggar from the dunghill, to set them among princes, and to make them inherit the throne of glory: for the pillars of the earth are the LORD'S, and he hath set the world upon them" (1 Samuel 2:8).

Or is anything too hard for the Lord? (Genesis 18:14; Jeremiah 32:17, 27). Absolutely not! The whole world was willed to one man - Abraham and His seed. We the gentiles are also made heirs to that inheritance because of Christ's redemptive work in our lives (Galatians 3:29). Joseph was sold out as a slave by his own brothers, but he arose to be the governor of Egypt (Genesis 42:6). Even in prison he was reigning (Genesis 39:22-23). Live as the glory of God in the world. There's nothing too good for you, and there's nothing too big for you. There's such an extent of life you can live. The good news is that God's in your heart by means of His Spirit. In other words, you're a carrier of God, a carrier of deity. It's your duty to live out the kind of life He's made available to you.

The Amplified version of our opening scripture says, "ARISE \[from the depression and prostration in which circumstances have kept you - rise to a new life\]! Shine (be radiant with the glory of the Lord), for your light has come, and the glory of the Lord has risen upon you. For behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and dense darkness \[all\] peoples, but the Lord shall arise upon you \[O\] Jerusalem, and His glory shall be seen on you. And nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising" (Isaiah 60:1-3). Glory to God! The Word is telling you to let go of those struggles and behold the new life that's in Christ Jesus - rise to that new life. Just as we read that Jesus radiated God's glory, this scripture tells us to do same for the glory is given to us.

Peter tells us about the sufferings of Christ and the glory that should follow (1 Peter 1:11). It also tells us that though there shall be darkness in the world (which it is), the Lord will rise upon Jerusalem and His glory shall be seen on them. In other words, they shall shine with God's glory; the darker the world, the brighter they'll shine. To God be the glory, Christ Jesus brought this glory, not only to the Jews but to the Gentiles also. And as we shine, Bible says kings will come to the brightness of our rising. They'll come to seek wisdom from us because we've been made carriers of God in the earth. It is written: "And they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament; and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars for ever and ever" (Daniel 12:3).

From the Bible, every king who ruled and functioned with the wisdom of God shone with His glory. They governed with His perfection. We are now the true light that shine: "Again, a new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true in him and in you: because the darkness is past, and the true light now shineth" (1 John 2:8). As the book of Daniel states, those who preach the gospel, that is, turn many to righteousness shall shine as the stars forever and ever. When you meet people, you can tell them, "Jesus loves you." It's enough. You can also get them born again and filled with the Spirit because you're full of God. You can also give money in order to help missionaries win souls.

You may not be able to win souls in Africa, Asia, Europe etc. but your money can win souls in those places. If you cannot go, your money can go. But then, remember not everybody will receive you as you preach the gospel. Don't worry; the Bible says it's because they've been blinded by the devil (2 Corinthians 4:4). Remember that "...the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned" (1 Corinthians 2:14). We've been made carriers of this glorious gospel so we're to deliver it to the heathen: "For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ" (2 Corinthians 4:6).

There're deep things we make known, for we don't teach from our minds. Concerning us, Bible says, "...we are God's \[own\] handiwork (His workmanship), recreated in Christ Jesus, \[born anew\] that we may do those good works which God predestined (planned beforehand) for us \[taking paths which He prepared ahead of time\], that we should walk in them \[living the life which He prearranged and made ready for us to live\]" (Ephesians 2:10 AMP). We're God's reproduction, His handwork and masterpiece. Do you know the good thing? God has never made a failure, so you're always a success. Don't accept what others say about you; call yourself what God says concerning you.

God's Word provides us with an important message: "For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Do all things without murmurings and disputing: That ye may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world" (Philippians 2:13-15). When your Pastor or church leader tells you to do something, do it as though it were God instructing you. We've been brought into glory: "For it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, in bringing many sons unto glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings" (Hebrews 2:10).

Look forward with faith, courage and excitement to glorious and fruitful years ahead. Perhaps, for the years passed by, you outlined so many things you wanted to achieve, but until now not so much have pulled through for you. Don't despair; rather find out where you missed it! Mark those things you ought to have done to help you achieve those goals you didn't attain, and make up your mind to reach them in the years ahead. Live in the light of His Word to you now and don't observe or interpret situations from the realm of the senses. Everything you require to enjoy your life to the full and be all that God created you to be has been granted you (2 Peter 1:3). Therefore tell yourself, "I'm going to accomplish everything the Lord has destined for me to accomplish, through the power of His Word and the ability of His Spirit at work in me!" Hallelujah!

"Moreover whom he did predestinate, them he also called: and whom he called, them he also justified: and whom he justified, them he also glorified" (Romans 8:30). We've been glorified by God; we're God's glory. We attained such an honour from God, not because of our works but by grace. Peter tells us: "But grow in grace (undeserved favor, spiritual strength) and recognition and knowledge and understanding of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ (the Messiah). To him \[be\] glory \[honor, majesty, and splendor) both now and to the day of eternity. Amen (so be it)!" (2 Peter 3:18). The grace-advantage is the power of promotion. It brings acceptability, honour and dignity into your life such that others see the beauty and excellence of God in you.

The grace of God has been made available to everyone in abundance (Ephesians 4:7; Romans 5:17); it's the lifting power of God that attracts the right people, materials and resources you need to function in God's destiny for your life. As one who's graced of God, there's a divine aura about you that attracts good to you. Even in challenging situations, that grace gives you the advantage and causes you to rise above every adversity. Never struggle to be accepted at work, in school, at home or anywhere; you have the grace advantage. All you need is to recognize and be strong in the grace of God: "Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus." (2 Timothy 2:1). To be strong in the grace of God is to be conscious of, and take advantage of it!

You're the seed of Abraham; therefore, the grace for prosperity is working in you twenty-four hour a day! That grace puts you ahead and positions you for success like it did for Isaac, who sowed in time of famine and reaped a hundredfold harvest in the same year (Genesis 26:12-13). Even as the world battles a downturn, with major economies failing, you still have the advantage because you're a child of grace. That's why the Bible says "When men are cast down, then thou shalt say, There is lifting up..." (Job 22:29). That's because you have the grace advantage; a lifting power that causes your life to move from glory to glory. God's grace is unlimited, but the measure or degree to which it's seen and reflected through you is dependent on you. You have the responsibility to see to it that the grace of God upon your life increases in greater measure.

Peter extends his greetings to the brethren in Christ: "Grace and peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God, and of Jesus our Lord" (2 Peter 1:2). The one sure way to have the grace of God multiplied in our lives is through the knowledge of God and the Lord Jesus. As the knowledge of God and His Word increases in your life, you'll walk in increased grace. Take notice the Bible didn't say you should pray to God for increased grace; rather, it shows you how to enlarge or give increase to the grace that's already been made available to you in Christ. The Greek word for knowledge in 2 Peter 1:2 is "epignosis." It means full knowledge that transcends mere awareness; an esoteric knowledge - a discernment or full understanding of God and of our Lord and Saviour, Jesus Christ.

Recognize, perceive, and become fully acquainted with God and His living Word - Jesus Christ - and you'll walk in ever-increasing grace. That way, the grace of God that brings acceptability, advantage, beauty and excellence will function in you in ever-increasing measure. Your knowledge about God and His Son Jesus Christ, and His calling upon your life will determine what you'll accomplish in your life time. Bible says concerning Jesus, "In him was life; and the life was the light of men. And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not" (John 1:4-5). Don't be bothered when the world say negative things concerning your Christian life because they cannot absorb or appropriate it; they don't understand so are unreceptive to it. We have the Spirit of excellence. Excellence is more than cleaning up the floor, having nice clothes on, and wearing a nice perfume.

It's something that describes the quality of your personality; it emanates from your spirit. God already sent the Holy Spirit, who is an excellent Spirit, to bring excellence into your life. So now you can always release it from within and manifest it to the world. From the American Standard Version, 1 Peter 2:9 says, "But ye are an elect race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession, that ye may show forth the excellence of him who called you out of darkness into his marvellous light." The world is in need of excellent minds. This is where you come in; God wants to show forth His excellence through you at every opportunity, and by so doing, manifest His glory to the world. He wants you to manifest excellence in your work, relationships, communication, demeanour, and in everything!

Whether you're an entrepreneur or a professional or an artisan; irrespective of what you do, bring the blessing into your work; function with an excellent spirit. Excellence is in your life; it's a quality of your recreated human spirit, therefore pull it out! Exude excellence in all you do and refuse to tolerate half measures or mundanity. Add value to yourself and to everything you're involved in. Learn something new and let your heart burn with new ideas on how to make things work better and improve the world around you. Be excellent, because you are. Concerning Daniel, Bible says, "Then this Daniel was preferred above the presidents and princes, because an excellent spirit was in him; and the king thought to set him over the whole realm" (Daniel 6:3).

Because he had an excellent Spirit, "...the king made Daniel a great man, and gave him many great gifts, and made him ruler over the whole province of Babylon, and chief of the governors over all the wise men of Babylon" (Daniel 2:48). Daniel learnt to take advantage of the Spirit of excellence and we can see how far it got him. No wonder the Word says, "But the path of the just is as the shining light, that shineth more and more unto the perfect day" (Proverbs 4:18). As a child of God, your life is of ever-increasing glory. Regardless of the successes and victories you may have experienced so far, there's still so much you can achieve! You can still ascend higher and move to a higher level in your journey of success, for there's no end to the glory of the child of God.

Some people function at certain level of productivity and wouldn't aspire for more until they get tired of that present level. Don't be like that; make it a habit to make more progress until you're tired. That's the life we have in Christ - it's from glory to glory. Let your journey of success be in one direction: Upward and Forward. Never be comfortable to remain in one spot for too long, no matter the laurels you were decorated with at that level. Conquer new grounds; chart new frontiers! Aspire to go higher. In the course of their journey to the Promised Land, the Israelites once dwelt in Mount Horeb. But seeing they were making that location a "comfort-zone," God admonished them through Moses to move ahead (Deuteronomy 1:5-6).

Also, at Shiloh, Joshua challenged the children of Israel saying, "For how long will you wait here, while there's still so much land for you to possess?" (Joshua 18:3). Even at age eighty-five, Caleb was willing to go to war and claim more lands for the Lord (Joshua 14:10-11). You were called to a life of unending success and victory; your path is as the shining light that shines brighter and brighter unto the perfect day. May the Holy Spirit open your eyes to see and apprehend your next level of success; may He enlighten your heart to comprehend the next and higher level of glory He's prepared for you, and impart you with the divine unction to ascend to that level, in Jesus' Name.

Thus saith the Lord unto thee, "The glory of this latter house shall be greater than of the former, saith the LORD of hosts: and in this place will I give peace, saith the LORD of hosts. Remember ye not the former things, neither consider the things of old. Behold, I will do a new thing; now it shall spring forth; shall ye not know it? I will even make a way in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert" (Haggai 2:9; Isaiah 43:18-19). The world is waiting for you, for "For \[even the whole creation (all nature) waits expectantly and longs earnestly for God's sons to be made known \[waits for the revealing, the disclosing of their sonship" (Romans 8:19 AMP). Read this message over and over until it settles down in your Spirit, for that's where the victory is. If you don't browse the net often, you can copy it to anywhere of your choice. You can even print it out. Read and read until you're soaked with it and I know your life will never be the same.

Finally, the Apostle Peter gave us a Word from the Spirit: "We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts" (2 Peter 1:19). Don't forget who you are, and always desire to grow more by studying God's Word and praying in the Spirit.

God bless you!
